docs/cow-protocol/tutorials/hook-dapp/hook-dapp.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# CoW Hook dApp

### [What are CoW Hooks?](/cow-protocol/concepts/order-types/cow-hooks)

### [Technical specification](/cow-protocol/reference/core/intents/hooks)

| <img alt="Demo" src="/img/tutorials/hooks-store.png" width="300"/> | <img alt="Demo" src="/img/tutorials/hooks-store-list.png" width="300"/> |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |

**Hook dApp** - is an application that allows you to conveniently program an order to perform any action before or after a swap.

In the CoW Swap interface you can find several hooks for different tasks. For example, you can claim GNO from Gnosis validators before your swap. You can also specify an arbitrary call to a smart contract before or after your swap using the "Build your own hooks" dApp.

But that's not all. You can also develop your own application that will install a hook in CoW Swap!
For this purpose, there is a custom application based on [iframe](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/iframe).

In order to add a custom hook, you need to:

- Click "add Pre/Post-Hook Action"
- Go to "My Custom Hooks" tab
- Paste a URL of the hook dApp

> CoW Hooks are still under development! The feature is not enabled in tbe production environment just yet.  
> You can test CoW Hooks at <https://barn.cow.fi>.

<img alt="Demo" src="/img/tutorials/hooks-store-custom-hooks.png" width="300"/>

## How to develop CoW Hook dApps

CoW Hook dApp is a web application that communicates with CoW Swap using [post-messages](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/postMessage).  
For your convenience there is a npm library [`@cowprotocol/hook-dapp-lib`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@cowprotocol/hook-dapp-lib) which provides everything necessary to get started with your hook dApp development.

### Install

```bash
yarn add @cowprotocol/hook-dapp-lib
```

```bash
npm install @cowprotocol/hook-dapp-lib
```

It provides:

- [`EIP-1193`](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1193) provider to interact with a user wallet
- `HookDappContext` which contains environment parameters (chainId, account, etc.) and current order parameters (sell token, validTo, etc.)

And it expects calling following callbacks:

- `addHook` when a hook data is ready and can be added to an order
- `editHook` when hook parameters were changed (edit mode)
- `setSellToken / setBuyToken` if you want to change the trade assets

### Quick start

Let's create a simple hook dApp that checks the COW token balance of the order creator.

```html
<html>
  <body>
    <button id="actionButton">Add or edit hook</button>

    <script>
      import { initCoWHookDapp, HookDappContext } from '@cowprotocol/hook-dapp-lib'

      // Encoded call of ERC20.balanceOf(account)
      const CALL_DATA = account => `0x70a08231000000000000000000000000${account.slice(2)}`

      let context: HookDappContext | null = null

      const { actions, provider } = initCoWHookDapp({ onContext: (_context) => context = _context })

      provider.request({ method: 'eth_chainId' }).then(chainId => {
          console.log(`User is connected to a network with id=${chainId}`)
      })

      document.getElementById('actionButton').addEventListener('click', () => {
        if (!context) {
          console.log('App is not loaded yet, please wait a bit.')
          return
        }

        // Edit a hook
        if (context.hookToEdit) {
            actions.editHook({
                ...context.hookToEdit,
                hook: {
                    ...context.hookToEdit.hook,
                    gasLimit: '40000'
                }
            })
        } else {
            // Create a hook
            actions.addHook({
                hook: {
                    target: '0xdef1ca1fb7fbcdc777520aa7f396b4e015f497ab', // COW token
                    callData: CALL_DATA(context.account),
                    gasLimit: '32000'
                }
            })
        }
      })
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

### Types specification

```typescript
import { initCoWHookDapp, CoWHookDappActions, HookDappContext } from '@cowprotocol/hook-dapp-lib'

// context: HookDappContext
// actions: CoWHookDappActions
// provider: EIP-1193
const { actions, provider } = initCoWHookDapp({ onContext(context: HookDappContext) {} })
```

---

#### `HookDappContext`

| Parameter         | Type                          | Optional | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `chainId`         | `number`                      | false    | Current chainId in CoW Swap.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `account`         | `string`                      | true     | The user's account address. If not set, the wallet is not connected yet.                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `orderParams`     | `HookDappOrderParams \| null` | false    | The parameters for the order. If value is `null`, the order is not ready yet. See [HookDappOrderParams](https://github.com/cowprotocol/cowswap/blob/develop/libs/hook-dapp-lib/src/types.ts#L29) for more details.                               |
| `hookToEdit`      | `CowHookDetails`              | true     | CoW Swap supports editing hooks that have been created already. If the parameter is set, then it's in edit mode. See [CowHookDetails](https://github.com/cowprotocol/cowswap/blob/develop/libs/hook-dapp-lib/src/types.ts#L18) for more details. |
| `isSmartContract` | `boolean \| undefined`        | true     | Whether the account is a smart contract. `undefined` if unknown.                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `isPreHook`       | `boolean`                     | false    | Indicates the position of the hook.                                                                                                                                                                                                              |

---

#### `CoWHookDappActions`

| Parameter                    | Type                                   | Description                                                         |
| ---------------------------- | -------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `addHook`                    | `(payload: CowHookCreation) => void`   | The callback should be executed once the hook is ready to be added. |
| `editHook`                   | `(payload: CowHookDetails) => void`    | The callback should be executed when the hook data is changed.      |
| `setSellToken / setBuyToken` | `(token: { address: string }) => void` | Optionally you can change the asset for sell/buy.                   |

### Manifest

As stated at the beginning of this document, in the CoW Swap interface you can add your application as a custom application.  
To do this, the application must contain `manifest.json` file with following structure:

```json
{
  "cow_hook_dapp": {
    "id": "06a2747d08f0026f47aebb91ac13172a318eb3f6116f742751e2d83cc61b8753",
    "name": "Your Hook Dapp",
    "descriptionShort": "Your Hook Dapp short description",
    "description": "Your Hook Dapp full description",
    "version": "0.0.1",
    "website": "https://your-cow-hook.dapp",
    "image": "http://your-cow-hook.dapp/logo.png",
    "conditions": {
      "position": "pre",
      "smartContractWalletSupported": false,
      "supportedNetworks": [1, 100, 42161]
    }
  }
}
```

| Parameter                        | Type                            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `id`                             | `string`                        | 64-bit hex application identifier `(keccak256(YOUR_APP_NAME))`. This value is used to match hooks in an order with the dApp that generated the hook.                                                                   |
| `name`                           | `string`                        | The name of the Hook Dapp.                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `descriptionShort`               | `string`                        | A short description.                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `description`                    | `string`                        | A full, detailed description of the Hook Dapp.                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `version`                        | `string`                        | The version number of the Hook Dapp, typically following semantic versioning.                                                                                                                                          |
| `website`                        | `string` (URL)                  | The URL link to the Hook Dapp's official website.                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `image`                          | `string` (URL)                  | The URL link to the Hook Dapp's logo or representative image.                                                                                                                                                          |
| `conditions.position`            | `pre \| post`                   | Specifies the execution position of the hook, `pre` or `post`. If not set, then the Hook Dapp supports both positions.                                                                                                 |
| `conditions.walletCompatibility` | `HookDappWalletCompatibility[]` | Indicates whether the Hook Dapp supports smart contract wallets or EOAs.                                                                                                                                               |
| `conditions.supportedNetworks`   | `array` of `integers`           | List of supported network IDs (e.g., `1` for Ethereum mainnet, `100` for Gnosis chain, `42161` for Arbitrum, `8453` for Base). If not set, then the Hook Dapp will be available for any network supported by CoW Swap. |

## Advanced Hook Dapps

For more complex scenarios, such as transferring the buy amount to another smart-contract or other smart-contract related actions, you will probably need CoW Shed:

- [CoW Shed](https://github.com/cowdao-grants/cow-shed)
- [Permit, Swap & Bridge CoW Hook example](https://v1.docs.cow.fi/overview/cow-hooks/cow-hooks-example/permit-swap-and-bridge-cow-hook)

Commit message:

Update text how to enable hooks dApps

docs/cow-protocol/tutorials/hook-dapp/hook-dapp.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# CoW Hook dApp

### [What are CoW Hooks?](/cow-protocol/concepts/order-types/cow-hooks)

### [Technical specification](/cow-protocol/reference/core/intents/hooks)

| <img alt="Demo" src="/img/tutorials/hooks-store.png" width="300"/> | <img alt="Demo" src="/img/tutorials/hooks-store-list.png" width="300"/> |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |

**Hook dApp** - is an application that allows you to conveniently program an order to perform any action before or after a swap.

In the CoW Swap interface you can find several hooks for different tasks. For example, you can claim GNO from Gnosis validators before your swap. You can also specify an arbitrary call to a smart contract before or after your swap using the "Build your own hooks" dApp.

But that's not all. You can also develop your own application that will install a hook in CoW Swap!
For this purpose, there is a custom application based on [iframe](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/iframe).

In order to add a custom hook, you need to:

- Click "add Pre/Post-Hook Action"
- Go to "My Custom Hooks" tab
- Paste a URL of the hook dApp

> CoW Hooks are still under development!   
> But you can test it by switching "Enable hooks" toggle ON in the Swap settings. 

<img alt="Demo" src="/img/tutorials/hooks-store-custom-hooks.png" width="300"/>

## How to develop CoW Hook dApps

CoW Hook dApp is a web application that communicates with CoW Swap using [post-messages](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/postMessage).  
For your convenience there is a npm library [`@cowprotocol/hook-dapp-lib`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@cowprotocol/hook-dapp-lib) which provides everything necessary to get started with your hook dApp development.

### Install

```bash
yarn add @cowprotocol/hook-dapp-lib
```

```bash
npm install @cowprotocol/hook-dapp-lib
```

It provides:

- [`EIP-1193`](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1193) provider to interact with a user wallet
- `HookDappContext` which contains environment parameters (chainId, account, etc.) and current order parameters (sell token, validTo, etc.)

And it expects calling following callbacks:

- `addHook` when a hook data is ready and can be added to an order
- `editHook` when hook parameters were changed (edit mode)
- `setSellToken / setBuyToken` if you want to change the trade assets

### Quick start

Let's create a simple hook dApp that checks the COW token balance of the order creator.

```html
<html>
  <body>
    <button id="actionButton">Add or edit hook</button>

    <script>
      import { initCoWHookDapp, HookDappContext } from '@cowprotocol/hook-dapp-lib'

      // Encoded call of ERC20.balanceOf(account)
      const CALL_DATA = account => `0x70a08231000000000000000000000000${account.slice(2)}`

      let context: HookDappContext | null = null

      const { actions, provider } = initCoWHookDapp({ onContext: (_context) => context = _context })

      provider.request({ method: 'eth_chainId' }).then(chainId => {
          console.log(`User is connected to a network with id=${chainId}`)
      })

      document.getElementById('actionButton').addEventListener('click', () => {
        if (!context) {
          console.log('App is not loaded yet, please wait a bit.')
          return
        }

        // Edit a hook
        if (context.hookToEdit) {
            actions.editHook({
                ...context.hookToEdit,
                hook: {
                    ...context.hookToEdit.hook,
                    gasLimit: '40000'
                }
            })
        } else {
            // Create a hook
            actions.addHook({
                hook: {
                    target: '0xdef1ca1fb7fbcdc777520aa7f396b4e015f497ab', // COW token
                    callData: CALL_DATA(context.account),
                    gasLimit: '32000'
                }
            })
        }
      })
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

### Types specification

```typescript
import { initCoWHookDapp, CoWHookDappActions, HookDappContext } from '@cowprotocol/hook-dapp-lib'

// context: HookDappContext
// actions: CoWHookDappActions
// provider: EIP-1193
const { actions, provider } = initCoWHookDapp({ onContext(context: HookDappContext) {} })
```

---

#### `HookDappContext`

| Parameter         | Type                          | Optional | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `chainId`         | `number`                      | false    | Current chainId in CoW Swap.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `account`         | `string`                      | true     | The user's account address. If not set, the wallet is not connected yet.                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `orderParams`     | `HookDappOrderParams \| null` | false    | The parameters for the order. If value is `null`, the order is not ready yet. See [HookDappOrderParams](https://github.com/cowprotocol/cowswap/blob/develop/libs/hook-dapp-lib/src/types.ts#L29) for more details.                               |
| `hookToEdit`      | `CowHookDetails`              | true     | CoW Swap supports editing hooks that have been created already. If the parameter is set, then it's in edit mode. See [CowHookDetails](https://github.com/cowprotocol/cowswap/blob/develop/libs/hook-dapp-lib/src/types.ts#L18) for more details. |
| `isSmartContract` | `boolean \| undefined`        | true     | Whether the account is a smart contract. `undefined` if unknown.                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `isPreHook`       | `boolean`                     | false    | Indicates the position of the hook.                                                                                                                                                                                                              |

---

#### `CoWHookDappActions`

| Parameter                    | Type                                   | Description                                                         |
| ---------------------------- | -------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `addHook`                    | `(payload: CowHookCreation) => void`   | The callback should be executed once the hook is ready to be added. |
| `editHook`                   | `(payload: CowHookDetails) => void`    | The callback should be executed when the hook data is changed.      |
| `setSellToken / setBuyToken` | `(token: { address: string }) => void` | Optionally you can change the asset for sell/buy.                   |

### Manifest

As stated at the beginning of this document, in the CoW Swap interface you can add your application as a custom application.  
To do this, the application must contain `manifest.json` file with following structure:

```json
{
  "cow_hook_dapp": {
    "id": "06a2747d08f0026f47aebb91ac13172a318eb3f6116f742751e2d83cc61b8753",
    "name": "Your Hook Dapp",
    "descriptionShort": "Your Hook Dapp short description",
    "description": "Your Hook Dapp full description",
    "version": "0.0.1",
    "website": "https://your-cow-hook.dapp",
    "image": "http://your-cow-hook.dapp/logo.png",
    "conditions": {
      "position": "pre",
      "smartContractWalletSupported": false,
      "supportedNetworks": [1, 100, 42161]
    }
  }
}
```

| Parameter                        | Type                            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `id`                             | `string`                        | 64-bit hex application identifier `(keccak256(YOUR_APP_NAME))`. This value is used to match hooks in an order with the dApp that generated the hook.                                                                   |
| `name`                           | `string`                        | The name of the Hook Dapp.                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `descriptionShort`               | `string`                        | A short description.                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `description`                    | `string`                        | A full, detailed description of the Hook Dapp.                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `version`                        | `string`                        | The version number of the Hook Dapp, typically following semantic versioning.                                                                                                                                          |
| `website`                        | `string` (URL)                  | The URL link to the Hook Dapp's official website.                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `image`                          | `string` (URL)                  | The URL link to the Hook Dapp's logo or representative image.                                                                                                                                                          |
| `conditions.position`            | `pre \| post`                   | Specifies the execution position of the hook, `pre` or `post`. If not set, then the Hook Dapp supports both positions.                                                                                                 |
| `conditions.walletCompatibility` | `HookDappWalletCompatibility[]` | Indicates whether the Hook Dapp supports smart contract wallets or EOAs.                                                                                                                                               |
| `conditions.supportedNetworks`   | `array` of `integers`           | List of supported network IDs (e.g., `1` for Ethereum mainnet, `100` for Gnosis chain, `42161` for Arbitrum, `8453` for Base). If not set, then the Hook Dapp will be available for any network supported by CoW Swap. |

## Advanced Hook Dapps

For more complex scenarios, such as transferring the buy amount to another smart-contract or other smart-contract related actions, you will probably need CoW Shed:

- [CoW Shed](https://github.com/cowdao-grants/cow-shed)
- [Permit, Swap & Bridge CoW Hook example](https://v1.docs.cow.fi/overview/cow-hooks/cow-hooks-example/permit-swap-and-bridge-cow-hook)
