CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing Guidelines

There are many ways to contribute to CoW Protocol. We welcome contributions of all kinds from anyone, whether you've been a long-time user or you are just getting started with development.

## Troubleshooting

You can help other users in the community to solve their issues in the [CoW Protocol Discord].

[CoW Protocol Discord]: https://discord.gg/cowprotocol
[CoW Protocol Forums]: https://forum.cow.fi

## Opening an issue

You can [open an issue] to suggest a feature or report a minor bug.

If you believe your issue may be due to user error and not a problem in the library, consider instead posting a question on the [CoW Protocol Discord].

Before opening an issue, be sure to search through the existing open and closed issues, and consider posting a comment in one of those instead.

When requesting a new feature, include as many details as you can, especially around the use cases that motivate it. Features are prioritised according to the impact they may have on the ecosystem, so we appreciate information showing that the impact could be high.

[open an issue]: ./issues/new/choose

## Submitting a pull request

If you would like to contribute code or documentation you may do so by forking the repository and submitting a pull request.

Any non-trivial documentation must be first discussed with the maintainers in an issue (see [Opening an issue](#opening-an-issue)). Only very minor changes are accepted without prior discussion.

When opening the pull request you will be presented with a template and a series of instructions. Read through it carefully and follow all the steps. Expect a review and feedback from the maintainers afterwards.

If you're looking for a good place to start, look for issues labelled ["good first issue"](https://github.com/cowprotocol/docs/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3A%22good%20first%20issue%22)!

Commit message:

chore(docs): fix pnpm dependency for build process
- Add pnpm installation to Vercel build command
- Update documentation to include pnpm requirement

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing Guidelines

There are many ways to contribute to CoW Protocol. We welcome contributions of all kinds from anyone, whether you've been a long-time user or you are just getting started with development.

## Prerequisites

Before contributing, make sure you have the following installed:

- **Node.js** (version 22.14.0 or higher)
- **Yarn** (package manager)
- **pnpm** (required for external dependencies): `npm install -g pnpm`

## Troubleshooting

You can help other users in the community to solve their issues in the [CoW Protocol Discord].

[CoW Protocol Discord]: https://discord.gg/cowprotocol
[CoW Protocol Forums]: https://forum.cow.fi

## Opening an issue

You can [open an issue] to suggest a feature or report a minor bug.

If you believe your issue may be due to user error and not a problem in the library, consider instead posting a question on the [CoW Protocol Discord].

Before opening an issue, be sure to search through the existing open and closed issues, and consider posting a comment in one of those instead.

When requesting a new feature, include as many details as you can, especially around the use cases that motivate it. Features are prioritised according to the impact they may have on the ecosystem, so we appreciate information showing that the impact could be high.

[open an issue]: ./issues/new/choose

## Submitting a pull request

If you would like to contribute code or documentation you may do so by forking the repository and submitting a pull request.

Any non-trivial documentation must be first discussed with the maintainers in an issue (see [Opening an issue](#opening-an-issue)). Only very minor changes are accepted without prior discussion.

When opening the pull request you will be presented with a template and a series of instructions. Read through it carefully and follow all the steps. Expect a review and feedback from the maintainers afterwards.

If you're looking for a good place to start, look for issues labelled ["good first issue"](https://github.com/cowprotocol/docs/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3A%22good%20first%20issue%22)!
