docs/cow-protocol/tutorials/swap-in-safe-app/README.mdx, before:

# Swap in Safe Apps

With over [100 Billon secured asserts](https://x.com/SchorLukas/status/1765865822797410466), Safe is a multi-signature wallet that allows users to manage their assets in a secure and decentralized way.

Safe Dapps, are third party interfaces that live inside the [Safe Wallet Web](https://app.safe.global) and allow users to interact with deFI protocols with a customised user experience.

[CoW Protocol Widget](https://widget.cow.fi) has a deep integration with Safe Dapps, which allows anyone building a Safe Dapp to seamlessly add trading functionality.

This is interesting for Safe Dapps because:
* 🧱 Cut the development costs, building a good trading experience is hard!
* ☔️ Offer users all CoW Protocol innovations, like protection from MEV, just-in-time path finding (optimised for Multisigs), batching of transactions and more.
* 🤑 Create a revenew model for your Dapp by using the `partnerFee` (see [Fees](/governance/fees#partner-fees)).

The easiest way to get started is to follow the steps below.

## Fork the project
You can use the **safe-app-example** to start with some basic boilerplate code.

Go to https://github.com/cowprotocol/safe-app-example and fork it.

![Fork project](/img/safe-app/fork.png)

This will create a copy of the project so you can safely make modifications on it.

## Clone boilerplate code
Once you have forked the project, clone it to your local machine.
```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
```

## Run app locally
Launch the Dapp on port 9999 (for example).
```bash
# Install dependencies
yarn

# Run the app
PORT=9999 yarn start
```

The app should be running on http://localhost:9999.

## Add your custom dapp in Safe Wallet
Go to https://app.safe.global and create a safe if you don't have one for Sepolia network (convenient for testing).


Then navigate to: `Apps` > `My Custom Dapps`.

![Safe custom dapps 1](/img/safe-app/safe-custom-apps-1.png)

Add your custom dapp: http://localhost:9999.

![Safe custom dapps 2](/img/safe-app/safe-custom-apps-2.png)

The dapp should be added in your local browser.

![Safe custom dapps 3](/img/safe-app/safe-custom-apps-3.png)

Open the app:

![Safe custom dapps 4](/img/safe-app/safe-custom-apps-4.png)


Try to make your first trade! You might need some tokens, or Sepolia Ether (you could use this [faucet](https://sepolia-faucet.pk910.de)).


## Explore the code 
Explore the code and try to make modifications!

It's your code now, try to make something useful for Safe users.

## Follow Up
From here, try to get more familiar with [CoW Protocol](/) and [Safe](https://docs.safe.global), and enhance your application.

Commit message:

Add demo and share new URL

docs/cow-protocol/tutorials/swap-in-safe-app/README.mdx, after:

# Swap in Safe Apps

With over [100 Billon secured asserts](https://x.com/SchorLukas/status/1765865822797410466), Safe is a multi-signature wallet that allows users to manage their assets in a secure and decentralized way.

Safe Dapps, are third party interfaces that live inside the [Safe Wallet Web](https://app.safe.global) and allow users to interact with deFI protocols with a customised user experience.

[CoW Protocol Widget](https://widget.cow.fi) has a deep integration with Safe Dapps, which allows anyone building a Safe Dapp to seamlessly add trading functionality.

This is interesting for Safe Dapps because:
* 🧱 Cut the development costs, building a good trading experience is hard!
* ☔️ Offer users all CoW Protocol innovations, like protection from MEV, just-in-time path finding (optimised for Multisigs), batching of transactions and more.
* 🤑 Create a revenew model for your Dapp by using the `partnerFee` (see [Fees](/governance/fees#partner-fees)).

The easiest way to get started is to follow the steps below.

## DEMO
Before you start, you can get a feel of the Safe App example. Feel free to skip this step!

The example shows:
- ✅ How to make a new Safe App
- ✅ How to make Swaps, Limit orders and TWAPs
- ✅ How to control programatically the swap widget
- ✅ How to detect trade parameters (token Selection, amounts, etc.)
- ✅ How to define a dynamic fee
- ✅ How to customize the colors, tokens, sounds, etc.


To use the demo, just follow the step [Add your custom dapp in Safe Wallet](#add-custom-dapp) bellow, but instead of adding the URL http://localhost:9999, use the URL https://safe.widget.cow.fi

![Safe custom dapps 0](/img/safe-app/safe-custom-apps-0.png)

## Fork the project
You can use the **safe-app-example** to start with some basic boilerplate code.

Go to https://github.com/cowprotocol/safe-app-example and fork it.

![Fork project](/img/safe-app/fork.png)

This will create a copy of the project so you can safely make modifications on it.

## Clone boilerplate code
Once you have forked the project, clone it to your local machine.
```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
```

## Run app locally
Launch the Dapp on port 9999 (for example).
```bash
# Install dependencies
yarn

# Run the app
PORT=9999 yarn start
```

The app should be running on http://localhost:9999.

## Add your custom dapp in Safe Wallet {#add-custom-dapp}
Go to https://app.safe.global and create a safe if you don't have one for Sepolia network (convenient for testing).


Then navigate to: `Apps` > `My Custom Dapps`.

![Safe custom dapps 1](/img/safe-app/safe-custom-apps-1.png)

Add your custom dapp: http://localhost:9999.

![Safe custom dapps 2](/img/safe-app/safe-custom-apps-2.png)

The dapp should be added in your local browser.

![Safe custom dapps 3](/img/safe-app/safe-custom-apps-3.png)

Open the app:

![Safe custom dapps 4](/img/safe-app/safe-custom-apps-4.png)


Try to make your first trade! You might need some tokens, or Sepolia Ether (you could use this [faucet](https://sepolia-faucet.pk910.de)).


## Explore the code 
Explore the code and try to make modifications!

It's your code now, try to make something useful for Safe users.

## Follow Up
From here, try to get more familiar with [CoW Protocol](/) and [Safe](https://docs.safe.global), and enhance your application.
