docs/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/periphery/README.mdx, before:

# Periphery

Peripheral contracts are those that are not necessary for CoW Protocol to function, but are used to enhance user experience.


## Deployments

:::tip

CoW Protocol contracts are generally deployed to the same addresses on their respective deployment chains. This may be done either via using determinsitic deployments (`CREATE2`), or ensuring that the deployer uses a consistent `nonce` via `CREATE` for deployment.

:::

### EthFlow

**Documentation**: [`EthFlow`](periphery/eth-flow)  
**Upgradeable**: No ❎  
**GitHub**: [CoWSwapEthFlow.sol](https://github.com/cowprotocol/ethflowcontract/blob/main/src/CoWSwapEthFlow.sol)

| Environment | Address | Networks |
|-------------|---------|----------|
| Production | `0xbA3cB449bD2B4ADddBc894D8697F5170800EAdeC` | [Mainnet](https://etherscan.io/address/0xbA3cB449bD2B4ADddBc894D8697F5170800EAdeC), [Gnosis chain](https://gnosisscan.io/address/0xbA3cB449bD2B4ADddBc894D8697F5170800EAdeC), [Arbitrum one](https://arbiscan.io/address/0xbA3cB449bD2B4ADddBc894D8697F5170800EAdeC), [Base](https://basescan.org/address/0xbA3cB449bD2B4ADddBc894D8697F5170800EAdeC), [Avalanche](https://snowscan.xyz/address/0xbA3cB449bD2B4ADddBc894D8697F5170800EAdeC), [Polygon](https://polygonscan.com/address/0xbA3cB449bD2B4ADddBc894D8697F5170800EAdeC), [Lens](https://explorer.lens.xyz/address/0x5A5b8aE7a0b4C0EAf453d10DCcfbA413f07ebdC2), [BNB](https://bscscan.com/address/0xbA3cB449bD2B4ADddBc894D8697F5170800EAdeC), [Sepolia](https://sepolia.etherscan.io/address/0xbA3cB449bD2B4ADddBc894D8697F5170800EAdeC) |
| Staging | `0x04501b9b1D52e67f6862d157E00D13419D2D6E95` | [Mainnet](https://etherscan.io/address/0x04501b9b1D52e67f6862d157E00D13419D2D6E95), [Gnosis chain](https://gnosisscan.io/address/0x04501b9b1D52e67f6862d157E00D13419D2D6E95), [Arbitrum one](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x04501b9b1D52e67f6862d157E00D13419D2D6E95), [Base](https://basescan.org/address/0x04501b9b1D52e67f6862d157E00D13419D2D6E95), [Avalanche](https://snowscan.xyz/address/0x04501b9b1D52e67f6862d157E00D13419D2D6E95), [Polygon](https://polygonscan.com/address/0x04501b9b1D52e67f6862d157E00D13419D2D6E95), [Lens](https://explorer.lens.xyz/address/0xFb337f8a725A142f65fb9ff4902d41cc901de222), [BNB](https://bscscan.com/address/0x04501b9b1D52e67f6862d157E00D13419D2D6E95), [Sepolia](https://sepolia.etherscan.io/address/0x04501b9b1D52e67f6862d157E00D13419D2D6E95) |

### HooksTrampoline

**Documentation**: [`HooksTrampoline`](periphery/hooks-trampoline)  
**Upgradeable**: No ❎  
**GitHub**: [HooksTrampoline.sol](https://github.com/cowprotocol/hooks-trampoline/blob/main/src/HooksTrampoline.sol)

**Address**: `0x60bf78233f48ec42ee3f101b9a05ec7878728006` 


:::warning

You should not assume that the HooksTrampoline contract address will remain fixed. Each solver may choose to use this implementation or another one, as long as it fulfills the hook intent.

:::



**Networks**: 
[Mainnet](https://etherscan.io/address/0x60bf78233f48ec42ee3f101b9a05ec7878728006), 
[Sepolia](https://sepolia.etherscan.io/address/0x60bf78233f48ec42ee3f101b9a05ec7878728006), 
[Gnosis chain](https://gnosisscan.io/address/0x60bf78233f48ec42ee3f101b9a05ec7878728006), 
[Base](https://basescan.org/address/0x60bf78233f48ec42ee3f101b9a05ec7878728006), 
[Arbitrum one](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x60bf78233f48ec42ee3f101b9a05ec7878728006), 
[Avalanche](https://snowscan.xyz/address/0x60bf78233f48ec42ee3f101b9a05ec7878728006), 
[Polygon](https://polygonscan.com/address/0x60bf78233f48ec42ee3f101b9a05ec7878728006), 
[Lens](https://explorer.lens.xyz/address/0x60bf78233f48ec42ee3f101b9a05ec7878728006), 
[BNB](https://bscscan.com/address/0x60bf78233f48ec42ee3f101b9a05ec7878728006), 
[Optimism](https://optimistic.etherscan.io/address/0x60bf78233f48ec42ee3f101b9a05ec7878728006), 

### ComposableCoW

**Documentation**: [`ComposableCoW`](periphery/composable-cow)  
**Upgradeable**: No ❎  
**GitHub**: [ComposableCoW.sol](https://github.com/cowprotocol/composable-cow/blob/main/src/ComposableCoW.sol)

**Address**: `0xfdaFc9d1902f4e0b84f65F49f244b32b31013b74`

**Networks**: 
[Mainnet](https://etherscan.io/address/0xfdaFc9d1902f4e0b84f65F49f244b32b31013b74), 
[Gnosis chain](https://gnosisscan.io/address/0xfdaFc9d1902f4e0b84f65F49f244b32b31013b74), 
[Arbitrum one](https://arbiscan.io/address/0xfdaFc9d1902f4e0b84f65F49f244b32b31013b74), 
[Base](https://basescan.org/address/0xfdaFc9d1902f4e0b84f65F49f244b32b31013b74), 
[Avalanche](https://snowscan.xyz/address/0xfdaFc9d1902f4e0b84f65F49f244b32b31013b74), 
[Polygon](https://polygonscan.com/address/0xfdaFc9d1902f4e0b84f65F49f244b32b31013b74), 
[Lens](https://explorer.lens.xyz/address/0xfdaFc9d1902f4e0b84f65F49f244b32b31013b74), 
[BNB](https://bscscan.com/address/0xfdaFc9d1902f4e0b84f65F49f244b32b31013b74), 
[Sepolia](https://sepolia.etherscan.io/address/0xfdaFc9d1902f4e0b84f65F49f244b32b31013b74)

### CoWUidGenerator

**Documentation**: [`CoWUidGenerator`](periphery/cow-uid-generator)  
**Upgradeable**: No ❎

| Network | Address |
|---------|---------|
| [Mainnet](https://etherscan.io/address/0xe84dcd8587287b997f51299430a396ad03aaec06) | `0xe84DCd8587287B997F51299430A396AD03aAEC06` |
| [Gnosis chain](https://gnosisscan.io/address/0xCA51403B524dF7dA6f9D6BFc64895AD833b5d711) | `0xCA51403B524dF7dA6f9D6BFc64895AD833b5d711` |
| [Base](https://basescan.org/address/0x96dddac514d0799e34e3f642c5006852ad24cd68) | `0x96ddDAC514d0799e34e3F642c5006852aD24CD68` |

Commit message:

fix(contracts-periphery): fix ETH flow addresses (#543)
# Description

The current list of ETH-flow is highly misleading since it implies that
the ETH-flow address is the same on Lens as for the other chains. Users
relying on this address on Lens would lose their funds.

# Changes

- Separated Lens ETH-flow address
- Removed disclaimer "generally deployed at the same address"
- Added warning about loss of funds
- Consistent alignment in source table

# Other notes

I tried to make the table easier to review when adding networks in the
future but I was unsuccessful. Options that could work would be to style
this section with code (requires messing with React components, which
I'm unfamiliar with) or relying on some relatively obscure package
[remark-grid-tables](https://github.com/zestedesavoir/zmarkdown/tree/master/packages/remark-grid-tables)
for better table formatting (idea from
[here](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/discussions/5155#discussioncomment-8036773)).

# How to review

Make sure all chains are included in the standard contract except for
Lens.

<!-- This is an auto-generated comment: release notes by coderabbit.ai
-->
## Summary by CodeRabbit

* **Documentation**
* Reworked EthFlow deployment docs with an expanded, clearer environment
table separating Production and Staging rows and including Lens-specific
Production/Staging entries.
  * Added explicit Lens environment entries for better clarity.
* Replaced the previous tip/layout with a prominent warning block
stressing correct chain selection and stronger caution about
irreversible fund loss when sending native tokens to EthFlow contracts
on the wrong chain.
<!-- end of auto-generated comment: release notes by coderabbit.ai -->

docs/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/periphery/README.mdx, after:

# Periphery

Peripheral contracts are those that are not necessary for CoW Protocol to function, but are used to enhance user experience.


## Deployments

### EthFlow

**Documentation**: [`EthFlow`](periphery/eth-flow)  
**Upgradeable**: No ❎  
**GitHub**: [CoWSwapEthFlow.sol](https://github.com/cowprotocol/ethflowcontract/blob/main/src/CoWSwapEthFlow.sol)

| Environment              | Address                                      | Networks |
|--------------------------|----------------------------------------------|----------|
| Production (most chains) | `0xbA3cB449bD2B4ADddBc894D8697F5170800EAdeC` | [Mainnet](https://etherscan.io/address/0xbA3cB449bD2B4ADddBc894D8697F5170800EAdeC), [Gnosis chain](https://gnosisscan.io/address/0xbA3cB449bD2B4ADddBc894D8697F5170800EAdeC), [Arbitrum one](https://arbiscan.io/address/0xbA3cB449bD2B4ADddBc894D8697F5170800EAdeC), [Base](https://basescan.org/address/0xbA3cB449bD2B4ADddBc894D8697F5170800EAdeC), [Avalanche](https://snowscan.xyz/address/0xbA3cB449bD2B4ADddBc894D8697F5170800EAdeC), [Polygon](https://polygonscan.com/address/0xbA3cB449bD2B4ADddBc894D8697F5170800EAdeC), [BNB](https://bscscan.com/address/0xbA3cB449bD2B4ADddBc894D8697F5170800EAdeC), [Sepolia](https://sepolia.etherscan.io/address/0xbA3cB449bD2B4ADddBc894D8697F5170800EAdeC), but not Lens! |
| Staging (most chains)    | `0x04501b9b1D52e67f6862d157E00D13419D2D6E95` | [Mainnet](https://etherscan.io/address/0x04501b9b1D52e67f6862d157E00D13419D2D6E95), [Gnosis chain](https://gnosisscan.io/address/0x04501b9b1D52e67f6862d157E00D13419D2D6E95), [Arbitrum one](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x04501b9b1D52e67f6862d157E00D13419D2D6E95), [Base](https://basescan.org/address/0x04501b9b1D52e67f6862d157E00D13419D2D6E95), [Avalanche](https://snowscan.xyz/address/0x04501b9b1D52e67f6862d157E00D13419D2D6E95), [Polygon](https://polygonscan.com/address/0x04501b9b1D52e67f6862d157E00D13419D2D6E95), [BNB](https://bscscan.com/address/0x04501b9b1D52e67f6862d157E00D13419D2D6E95), [Sepolia](https://sepolia.etherscan.io/address/0x04501b9b1D52e67f6862d157E00D13419D2D6E95), but not Lens! |
| Production (Lens)        | `0x5A5b8aE7a0b4C0EAf453d10DCcfbA413f07ebdC2` | [Lens](https://explorer.lens.xyz/address/0x5A5b8aE7a0b4C0EAf453d10DCcfbA413f07ebdC2) only!
| Staging (Lens)           | `0xFb337f8a725A142f65fb9ff4902d41cc901de222` | [Lens](https://explorer.lens.xyz/address/0xFb337f8a725A142f65fb9ff4902d41cc901de222) only!

:::warning

Sending native tokens to the EthFlow contract in the wrong chain leads to **irrecoverable loss of funds**!
Be very careful to choose the right address in the chains you're currently using.

:::

### HooksTrampoline

**Documentation**: [`HooksTrampoline`](periphery/hooks-trampoline)  
**Upgradeable**: No ❎  
**GitHub**: [HooksTrampoline.sol](https://github.com/cowprotocol/hooks-trampoline/blob/main/src/HooksTrampoline.sol)

**Address**: `0x60bf78233f48ec42ee3f101b9a05ec7878728006` 


:::warning

You should not assume that the HooksTrampoline contract address will remain fixed. Each solver may choose to use this implementation or another one, as long as it fulfills the hook intent.

:::



**Networks**: 
[Mainnet](https://etherscan.io/address/0x60bf78233f48ec42ee3f101b9a05ec7878728006), 
[Sepolia](https://sepolia.etherscan.io/address/0x60bf78233f48ec42ee3f101b9a05ec7878728006), 
[Gnosis chain](https://gnosisscan.io/address/0x60bf78233f48ec42ee3f101b9a05ec7878728006), 
[Base](https://basescan.org/address/0x60bf78233f48ec42ee3f101b9a05ec7878728006), 
[Arbitrum one](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x60bf78233f48ec42ee3f101b9a05ec7878728006), 
[Avalanche](https://snowscan.xyz/address/0x60bf78233f48ec42ee3f101b9a05ec7878728006), 
[Polygon](https://polygonscan.com/address/0x60bf78233f48ec42ee3f101b9a05ec7878728006), 
[Lens](https://explorer.lens.xyz/address/0x60bf78233f48ec42ee3f101b9a05ec7878728006), 
[BNB](https://bscscan.com/address/0x60bf78233f48ec42ee3f101b9a05ec7878728006), 
[Optimism](https://optimistic.etherscan.io/address/0x60bf78233f48ec42ee3f101b9a05ec7878728006), 

### ComposableCoW

**Documentation**: [`ComposableCoW`](periphery/composable-cow)  
**Upgradeable**: No ❎  
**GitHub**: [ComposableCoW.sol](https://github.com/cowprotocol/composable-cow/blob/main/src/ComposableCoW.sol)

**Address**: `0xfdaFc9d1902f4e0b84f65F49f244b32b31013b74`

**Networks**: 
[Mainnet](https://etherscan.io/address/0xfdaFc9d1902f4e0b84f65F49f244b32b31013b74), 
[Gnosis chain](https://gnosisscan.io/address/0xfdaFc9d1902f4e0b84f65F49f244b32b31013b74), 
[Arbitrum one](https://arbiscan.io/address/0xfdaFc9d1902f4e0b84f65F49f244b32b31013b74), 
[Base](https://basescan.org/address/0xfdaFc9d1902f4e0b84f65F49f244b32b31013b74), 
[Avalanche](https://snowscan.xyz/address/0xfdaFc9d1902f4e0b84f65F49f244b32b31013b74), 
[Polygon](https://polygonscan.com/address/0xfdaFc9d1902f4e0b84f65F49f244b32b31013b74), 
[Lens](https://explorer.lens.xyz/address/0xfdaFc9d1902f4e0b84f65F49f244b32b31013b74), 
[BNB](https://bscscan.com/address/0xfdaFc9d1902f4e0b84f65F49f244b32b31013b74), 
[Sepolia](https://sepolia.etherscan.io/address/0xfdaFc9d1902f4e0b84f65F49f244b32b31013b74)

### CoWUidGenerator

**Documentation**: [`CoWUidGenerator`](periphery/cow-uid-generator)  
**Upgradeable**: No ❎

| Network | Address |
|---------|---------|
| [Mainnet](https://etherscan.io/address/0xe84dcd8587287b997f51299430a396ad03aaec06) | `0xe84DCd8587287B997F51299430A396AD03aAEC06` |
| [Gnosis chain](https://gnosisscan.io/address/0xCA51403B524dF7dA6f9D6BFc64895AD833b5d711) | `0xCA51403B524dF7dA6f9D6BFc64895AD833b5d711` |
| [Base](https://basescan.org/address/0x96dddac514d0799e34e3f642c5006852ad24cd68) | `0x96ddDAC514d0799e34e3F642c5006852aD24CD68` |
