---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Limit orders

Limit orders are orders to buy or sell tokens at a specified price within a specified time horizon. If the available price hits the target price within the time horizon, the order executes. Placing a limit order is like setting a trap for the price you want to get for your trade. Limit orders from CoW Protocol differ from other limit orders products in DeFi thanks to CoW Protocol’s unique architecture. We say that CoW Protocol limit orders are, in fact, UN-limited, because they offer:

* Unlimited order management: Traders can manage orders without paying fees, meaning they can set and cancel limit orders as much as they’d like without paying for gas (like they would have to on other exchanges)
* Unlimited order placement: Traders can use the same crypto balance to place many orders at once, and have them stay active for up to a year. CoW Protocol fills orders as they hit their limit prices and stops filling them once a wallet runs out of sell tokens (when that happens, traders can top up their wallets to keep the orders flowing)
* Unlimited order surplus: Traders receive the price at execution time, so if a price falls below the trigger price, the upside belongs to them and not the order taker. Additionally, any price improvement generated by solvers finding better execution paths (i.e. finding a Coincidence of Wants) belongs to the trader

Taken together, CoW Protocol now offers the most-flexible limit order experience in DeFi. This is thanks to CoW Protocol’s unique architecture, which leverages [batch auctions](../batch-auctions/why-batch-auctions) to deliver fair and efficient outcomes for traders.

When placing market orders with CoW Protocol, users sign trade intents rather than actual transactions on-chain. CoW Protocol collects these intents into batches, and settles them in the most-efficient way possible (by auctioning them via a decentralized network of solvers). This innovative architecture allows for gasless, free-to-place and free-to-cancel limit orders.Another benefit unique to limit orders on CoW Protocol is that they are surplus-capturing.This means that the protocol can improve prices above-and-beyond what users expect when they place their limit orders. CoW Protocol generates surplus on behalf of its users by matching Coincidences of Wants within batches, and by capturing favorable price movements between the time orders are sent and the time they are settled on-chain.