docs/cow-protocol/README.mdx, before:

# CoW Protocol

CoW Protocol matches users' trade intents via batch auctions from a variety of on-chain liquidity sources and private market makers.

When matching intents, CoW Protocol first seeks a _Coincidence of Wants_ (CoW) within the existing batch to offer an even better price than any pool/market maker can. If no CoW is found, CoW Protocol solvers then seek to find the best price for a trade from available on-chain and off-chain liquidity.

On-chain liquidity sources include: 
- AMMs (e.g. Uniswap, Sushiswap, Balancer, Curve, etc)
- DEX Aggregators (e.g. 1inch, Paraswap, Matcha, etc)
- Private Market Makers (e.g. 0x, Hashflow, Bebop, etc)

Therefore, CoW Protocol is essentially an aggregator of aggregators.

To learn more about the concepts CoW Protocol makes use of, see [Concepts](cow-protocol/concepts).

For more info on how to use CoW Protocol or CoW Swap, see [Tutorials](cow-protocol/tutorials).

To dive into the technical details, see [Technical reference](cow-protocol/reference).

Commit message:

chore: concepts (#256)
# Description

wip: concepts

## Related Issues

Fixes #63
Fixes #92 
Fixes #95 
Fixes #61 
Fixes #56 
Fixes #131 
Fixes #96
Fixes #75

---------

Co-authored-by: mfw78 <53399572+mfw78@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/cow-protocol/README.mdx, after:

# CoW Protocol

CoW Protocol is a meta-DEX aggregation protocol that leverages [trade intents](cow-protocol/concepts/introduction/intents) and [batch auctions](cow-protocol/concepts/introduction/batch-auctions) to find users better prices for crypto trades.

![What is CoW Protocol](/img/what-is-cow-protocol.png)

The protocol relies on third parties known as "[solvers](cow-protocol/concepts/introduction/solvers)" to find the best execution paths for trade intents — signed messages that specify conditions for executing transaction on Ethereum and EVM-compatable chains. 

Upon first receiving a user intent, the protocol groups it alongside other pending intents in a [batch](cow-protocol/concepts/introduction/batch-auctions). When executing trade intents, solvers first try to find a [*Coincidence of Wants (CoW)](cow-protocol/concepts/introduction/coincidence-of-wants)* within the existing batch to offer an optimal price over any on-chain market maker. If the protocol does not find a CoW, the solvers search all available on-chain and off-chain liquidity to find the best price for a set of trade intents within a batch.

Liquidity sources include:

- AMMs (e.g. Uniswap, Sushiswap, Balancer, Curve, etc.)
- DEX Aggregators (e.g. 1inch, Paraswap, Matcha, etc.)
- Private Market Makers (e.g. 0x, Hashflow, Bebop, etc.)

This delegated trade execution architecture makes CoW Protocol a meta-DEX aggregator, or an aggregator of aggregators.

**To learn more about the concepts CoW Protocol makes use of, see [Concepts](cow-protocol/concepts).**

**For more info on how to use CoW Protocol or CoW Swap, see [Tutorials](cow-protocol/tutorials).**

**To dive into the technical details, see [Technical reference](cow-protocol/reference).**
