docs/cow-protocol/tutorials/widget.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# CoW Swap Widget

Integrate the power of `CoW Swap` into your product!
With the widget, you can create an incredible trading interface. Specify the required pair of currencies, customize the
look and much more!

Create your own widget using the configurator https://widget.cow.fi.

![Demo](/img/tutorials/widget.png)

## Install

```bash
yarn add @cowprotocol/widget-lib
```

```bash
npm install @cowprotocol/widget-lib
```

## Quick start

```typescript
import {cowSwapWidget, CowSwapWidgetParams} from '@cowprotocol/widget-lib'

// HTML element where the widget will be rendered
const widgetContainer = document.getElementById('cowswap-widget')

const params: CowSwapWidgetParams = {
  appCode: 'NAME-OF-YOU-APP', // Add here the name of your app. e.g. "Pig Swap"
  width: 600,
  height: 640,
  sell: {asset: 'DAI'},
  buy: {asset: 'USDC', amount: '0.1'}
}

cowSwapWidget(widgetContainer, params)
```

## App key

You must specify the `appCode` parameter when initializing the widget. This parameter is used to identify the source of
orders.  
The key must be a UTF8 string of up to 50 chars.  
It will be a part of orders meta-data, see more in
the [CoW Protocol Docs](https://docs.cow.fi/front-end/creating-app-ids/create-the-order-meta-data-file/appcode).

## Partner fee

If your business model involves charging a fee for trading, you can easily do this by adding just one parameter:

```typescript
import {cowSwapWidget, CowSwapWidgetParams} from '@cowprotocol/widget-lib'

const widgetContainer = document.getElementById('cowswap-widget')

const params: CowSwapWidgetParams = {
  partnerFee: {
      bps: 50, // 0.5%
      recipient: '0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000' // Fee destination address
  }
}

cowSwapWidget(widgetContainer, params)
```

The fee in basis points (BPS). One basis point is equivalent to 0.01% (1/100th of a percent).  

> The fee cannot exceed 1% (100 bps).

The recipient is the address to which the fee will be sent.

Once you have set up the partner fee, you will see the fee in the CoW Swap UI:

![Partner fee](/img/tutorials/partner-fee.png)

## Wallet provider

You can pass the wallet provider from your application to seamlessly use the widget as part of your application.
Also, you can not specify the provider, in this case the widget will work in standalone mode with the ability to connect
any wallet supported in CoW Swap.

A provider must comply with [EIP-1193](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1193) and implement the interface:

```typescript
interface EthereumProvider {
  on(event: string, args: unknown): void

  request<T>(params: JsonRpcRequest): Promise<T>

  enable(): Promise<void>
}

interface JsonRpcRequest {
  id: number
  method: string
  params: unknown[]
}
```

An example of connecting a widget to Rabby Wallet or Metamask:

```typescript
import {cowSwapWidget, CowSwapWidgetParams} from '@cowprotocol/widget-lib'

cowSwapWidget(
  document.getElementById('cowswap-widget'),
  {
    provider: window.ethereum // <-------
  }
)
```

## Configuration

### `CowSwapWidgetParams`

> All params are optional

| Parameter              | Type               | Default                | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|------------------------|--------------------|------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `width`                | `string`           | 400px                  | The width of the widget in css values (px, vh, etc.).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `height`               | `string`           | 600px                  | The height of the widget in css values (px, vh, etc.).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `appCode`              | `string`           | ---                    | The unique identifier of the widget consumer. Please fill the for to let us know a little about you: https://cowprotocol.typeform.com/to/rONXaxHV.                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `provider`             | `EthereumProvider` | ---                    | The Ethereum provider to be used for interacting with a wallet. To connect, for example, to Rabby Wallet or Metamask, just set `window.ethereum`. You also might like to use https://web3modal.com.                                                                                                                         |
| `chainId`              | `number`           | 1                      | The blockchain ID on which the trade will take place.  Currently supported: 1 (Mainnet), 11155111 (Sepolia), 100 (Gnosis chain).                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `tradeType`            | `TradeType`        | 'swap'                 | The type of trade. Can be `swap` or `limit` or `advanced`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `env`                  | `CowSwapWidgetEnv` | 'prod'                 | The environment of the widget (`local` , `prod` , `dev` , `pr`). See [`COWSWAP_URLS`](https://github.com/cowprotocol/cowswap/blob/develop/libs/widget-lib/src/consts.ts) const value for urls.                                                                                                                              |
| `tradeAssets`          | `TradeAssets`      | Same as in swap.cow.fi | An object containing information about the selling and buying assets. Example: `{ asset: 'WBTC', amount: 12 }` or `{ asset: '0xa0b86991c6218b36c1d19d4a2e9eb0ce3606eb48' }`.                                                                                                                                                |
| `theme`                | `CowSwapTheme`     | 'light'                | The theme of the widget (`'dark'` for dark theme or `'light'` for light theme). It is also possible to set your own colors (`CowSwapWidgetPalette`). See [Custom theme](#custom-theme) section for more details.                                                                                                            |
| `logoUrl`              | `string`           | ---                    | Allows to set a custom logo for the widget.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `disableToastMessages` | `boolean`          | false                  | CoW Swap displays a pop-up notification when certain events occur, for example: an order has been filled. You may want to handle these events yourself and disable the display of notifications in the widget, to do this you need to enable this option. See [Events handling](#events-handling) section for more details. |
| `standaloneMode`       | `boolean`          | false                  | When this option is enabled, the widget will use its own Ethereum provider and the user will be able to connect a wallet from within the widget.                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `hideLogo`             | `boolean`          | false                  | Option to hide the logo in the widget.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `hideNetworkSelector`  | `boolean`          | false                  | Disables an opportunity to change the network from the widget UI.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `enabledTradeTypes`    | `Array<TradeType>` | All are enabled        | CoW Swap provides three trading widgets: `swap`, `limit` and `advanced` orders. Using this option you can narrow down the list of available trading widgets.                                                                                                                                                                |
| `partnerFee`           | `PartnerFee`       | ---                    | You can enable a fee for all trades in the widget. See [Partner fee](#partner-fee) section for more details.                                                                                                                                                                                                                |

## Custom theme

By setting custom colors you can very flexibly control the appearance of the widget.  
To do this, you need to pass an object of type `CowSwapWidgetPalette` to the `theme` parameter.

You actually can specify only 2 or 3 basic colors, the rest of the palette is efficiently derived (also with the help of the [color2k](https://github.com/ricokahler/color2k) library to get 'AA' rated text/background color contrasts).

Example:

```typescript
import {cowSwapWidget, CowSwapWidgetParams, CowSwapWidgetPalette} from '@cowprotocol/widget-lib'

const widgetContainer = document.getElementById('cowswap-widget')

// Set custom colors
const theme: CowSwapWidgetPalette = {
    baseTheme: 'light',
    primary: '#00ff85',
    background: '#f7f7f7',
    paper: '#1a4435',
    text: '#ffffff',
    warning: '#ffb700',
    alert: '#b8ffb2',
    success: '#19ff64'
}
const params: CowSwapWidgetParams = {
  appCode: 'NAME-OF-YOU-APP', // Add here the name of your app. e.g. "Pig Swap"
  theme
}

cowSwapWidget(widgetContainer, params)
```

Try it yourself: https://widget.cow.fi.

![Custom theme](/img/tutorials/custom-theme.png)

## Events handling

The widget provides a bus of events that occur in the widget.  
Using it, you can receive notifications, for example, when an order has been executed or when an approval transaction has been mined.  

Separately, it is worth noting the `ON_TOAST_MESSAGE` event; it occurs every time any notification is displayed in CoW Swap.
To avoid double display of notifications, enable the `disableToastMessages` option in the widget configurations.

> A list of all possible events can be found in the source code on [Github](https://github.com/cowprotocol/cowswap/blob/develop/libs/events/src/types/events.ts).

### Events usage example

```typescript
import {cowSwapWidget, CowSwapWidgetParams, CowEventListeners, CowEvents} from '@cowprotocol/widget-lib'

const params: CowSwapWidgetParams = {
    appCode: 'YOUR_APP_ID'
}

const listeners: CowEventListeners = [
    {
        event: CowEvents.ON_TOAST_MESSAGE,
        handler: (event) => console.log('[ON_TOAST_MESSAGE]', event.message)
    },
    {
        event: CowEvents.ON_EXPIRED_ORDER,
        handler: (event) => console.log('Order was expired:', event.order)
    },
]

const { updateListeners } = cowSwapWidget(container, { params, listeners })

// If you want to change listeners at some point, you can do it like:
updateListeners([{
    event: CowEvents.ON_CANCELLED_ORDER,
    handler: (event) => console.log('Order was cancelled:', event.order)
}])
```

## Widget updating

You can change all possible widget options on the fly:

```typescript
import {cowSwapWidget, CowSwapWidgetParams} from '@cowprotocol/widget-lib'

const container = document.getElementById('cowswap-widget')

const params: CowSwapWidgetParams = {
  appCode: 'NAME-OF-YOU-APP', // Add here the name of your app. e.g. "Pig Swap"
  logoUrl: 'YOUR_LOGO_URL'
}

const updateWidget = cowSwapWidget(container, params)

// Update the widget
updateWidget({
  ...params,
  theme: 'dark', // <- Change theme to dark
  hideNetworkSelector: true // <- Hide the network selector
})
```

## Widget URL

Most of the widget parameters are controlled via the URL, which means that you can create the URL yourself and embed the
iframe.
An example of URL:

```
https://swap.cow.fi/#/100/swap/WXDAI/GNO?sellAmount=200&theme=dark
```

Commit message:

feat: update partner fee section

docs/cow-protocol/tutorials/widget.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# CoW Swap Widget

Integrate the power of `CoW Swap` into your product!
With the widget, you can create an incredible trading interface. Specify the required pair of currencies, customize the
look and much more!

Create your own widget using the configurator https://widget.cow.fi.

![Demo](/img/tutorials/widget.png)

## Install

```bash
yarn add @cowprotocol/widget-lib
```

```bash
npm install @cowprotocol/widget-lib
```

## Quick start

```typescript
import {cowSwapWidget, CowSwapWidgetParams} from '@cowprotocol/widget-lib'

// HTML element where the widget will be rendered
const widgetContainer = document.getElementById('cowswap-widget')

const params: CowSwapWidgetParams = {
  appCode: 'NAME-OF-YOU-APP', // Add here the name of your app. e.g. "Pig Swap"
  width: 600,
  height: 640,
  sell: {asset: 'DAI'},
  buy: {asset: 'USDC', amount: '0.1'}
}

cowSwapWidget(widgetContainer, params)
```

## App key

You must specify the `appCode` parameter when initializing the widget. This parameter is used to identify the source of
orders.  
The key must be a UTF8 string of up to 50 chars.  
It will be a part of orders meta-data, see more in
the [CoW Protocol Docs](https://docs.cow.fi/front-end/creating-app-ids/create-the-order-meta-data-file/appcode).

## Partner fee

You may participate in the Partner Fee program to collect fee on trades executed by your users through the Widget by
adding the following parameter to your Widget:

```typescript
import {cowSwapWidget, CowSwapWidgetParams} from '@cowprotocol/widget-lib'

const widgetContainer = document.getElementById('cowswap-widget')

const params: CowSwapWidgetParams = {
  partnerFee: {
      bps: 50, // 0.5%
      recipient: '0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000' // Fee destination address
  }
}

cowSwapWidget(widgetContainer, params)
```

The fee in basis points (BPS). One basis point is equivalent to 0.01% (1/100th of a percent).  

> The fee cannot exceed 1% (100 bps).

The recipient is the address to which the fee will be sent.

Once you have set up the partner fee, you will see the fee in the CoW Swap UI:

![Partner fee](/img/tutorials/partner-fee.png)

[Terms and conditions](https://cow.fi/widget/terms-and-conditions) apply.

### Partner Fee Calculation

Partner fee is calculated as the sum of all transactions traded through your project’s Widget with Partner Fee defined
in the appData, multiplied by the % percentage of the Partner Fee bps defined in the appData.

The Partner Fee per order is calculated based on the surplus token of the order (i.e. buy token for sell orders, and
sell token for buy orders) and is then converted into WETH using an external price provider at the time of the
settlement of the order.

A percentage % of the Partner Fee shall be retained as a service fee to CoW Protocol (the “Service Fee”) which is
currently set at 15% of the total eligible Partner Fee amount.

The Partner Fee net of the Service Fee is the Partner Fee amount (the “Net Partner Fee”) eligible for weekly payment.
See here for Partner Fee calculation examples.

Note: You may charge users a fee of no more than 100 bps of order volume through your Widget. Partner Fee will begin to
accrue from the release date of this Partner Fee feature on 4 April 2024.


## Wallet provider

You can pass the wallet provider from your application to seamlessly use the widget as part of your application.
Also, you can not specify the provider, in this case the widget will work in standalone mode with the ability to connect
any wallet supported in CoW Swap.

A provider must comply with [EIP-1193](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1193) and implement the interface:

```typescript
interface EthereumProvider {
  on(event: string, args: unknown): void

  request<T>(params: JsonRpcRequest): Promise<T>

  enable(): Promise<void>
}

interface JsonRpcRequest {
  id: number
  method: string
  params: unknown[]
}
```

An example of connecting a widget to Rabby Wallet or Metamask:

```typescript
import {cowSwapWidget, CowSwapWidgetParams} from '@cowprotocol/widget-lib'

cowSwapWidget(
  document.getElementById('cowswap-widget'),
  {
    provider: window.ethereum // <-------
  }
)
```

## Configuration

### `CowSwapWidgetParams`

> All params are optional

| Parameter              | Type               | Default                | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|------------------------|--------------------|------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `width`                | `string`           | 400px                  | The width of the widget in css values (px, vh, etc.).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `height`               | `string`           | 600px                  | The height of the widget in css values (px, vh, etc.).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `appCode`              | `string`           | ---                    | The unique identifier of the widget consumer. Please fill the for to let us know a little about you: https://cowprotocol.typeform.com/to/rONXaxHV.                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `provider`             | `EthereumProvider` | ---                    | The Ethereum provider to be used for interacting with a wallet. To connect, for example, to Rabby Wallet or Metamask, just set `window.ethereum`. You also might like to use https://web3modal.com.                                                                                                                         |
| `chainId`              | `number`           | 1                      | The blockchain ID on which the trade will take place.  Currently supported: 1 (Mainnet), 11155111 (Sepolia), 100 (Gnosis chain).                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `tradeType`            | `TradeType`        | 'swap'                 | The type of trade. Can be `swap` or `limit` or `advanced`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `env`                  | `CowSwapWidgetEnv` | 'prod'                 | The environment of the widget (`local` , `prod` , `dev` , `pr`). See [`COWSWAP_URLS`](https://github.com/cowprotocol/cowswap/blob/develop/libs/widget-lib/src/consts.ts) const value for urls.                                                                                                                              |
| `tradeAssets`          | `TradeAssets`      | Same as in swap.cow.fi | An object containing information about the selling and buying assets. Example: `{ asset: 'WBTC', amount: 12 }` or `{ asset: '0xa0b86991c6218b36c1d19d4a2e9eb0ce3606eb48' }`.                                                                                                                                                |
| `theme`                | `CowSwapTheme`     | 'light'                | The theme of the widget (`'dark'` for dark theme or `'light'` for light theme). It is also possible to set your own colors (`CowSwapWidgetPalette`). See [Custom theme](#custom-theme) section for more details.                                                                                                            |
| `logoUrl`              | `string`           | ---                    | Allows to set a custom logo for the widget.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `disableToastMessages` | `boolean`          | false                  | CoW Swap displays a pop-up notification when certain events occur, for example: an order has been filled. You may want to handle these events yourself and disable the display of notifications in the widget, to do this you need to enable this option. See [Events handling](#events-handling) section for more details. |
| `standaloneMode`       | `boolean`          | false                  | When this option is enabled, the widget will use its own Ethereum provider and the user will be able to connect a wallet from within the widget.                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `hideLogo`             | `boolean`          | false                  | Option to hide the logo in the widget.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `hideNetworkSelector`  | `boolean`          | false                  | Disables an opportunity to change the network from the widget UI.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `enabledTradeTypes`    | `Array<TradeType>` | All are enabled        | CoW Swap provides three trading widgets: `swap`, `limit` and `advanced` orders. Using this option you can narrow down the list of available trading widgets.                                                                                                                                                                |
| `partnerFee`           | `PartnerFee`       | ---                    | You can enable a fee for all trades in the widget. See [Partner fee](#partner-fee) section for more details.                                                                                                                                                                                                                |

## Custom theme

By setting custom colors you can very flexibly control the appearance of the widget.  
To do this, you need to pass an object of type `CowSwapWidgetPalette` to the `theme` parameter.

You actually can specify only 2 or 3 basic colors, the rest of the palette is efficiently derived (also with the help of the [color2k](https://github.com/ricokahler/color2k) library to get 'AA' rated text/background color contrasts).

Example:

```typescript
import {cowSwapWidget, CowSwapWidgetParams, CowSwapWidgetPalette} from '@cowprotocol/widget-lib'

const widgetContainer = document.getElementById('cowswap-widget')

// Set custom colors
const theme: CowSwapWidgetPalette = {
    baseTheme: 'light',
    primary: '#00ff85',
    background: '#f7f7f7',
    paper: '#1a4435',
    text: '#ffffff',
    warning: '#ffb700',
    alert: '#b8ffb2',
    success: '#19ff64'
}
const params: CowSwapWidgetParams = {
  appCode: 'NAME-OF-YOU-APP', // Add here the name of your app. e.g. "Pig Swap"
  theme
}

cowSwapWidget(widgetContainer, params)
```

Try it yourself: https://widget.cow.fi.

![Custom theme](/img/tutorials/custom-theme.png)

## Events handling

The widget provides a bus of events that occur in the widget.  
Using it, you can receive notifications, for example, when an order has been executed or when an approval transaction has been mined.  

Separately, it is worth noting the `ON_TOAST_MESSAGE` event; it occurs every time any notification is displayed in CoW Swap.
To avoid double display of notifications, enable the `disableToastMessages` option in the widget configurations.

> A list of all possible events can be found in the source code on [Github](https://github.com/cowprotocol/cowswap/blob/develop/libs/events/src/types/events.ts).

### Events usage example

```typescript
import {cowSwapWidget, CowSwapWidgetParams, CowEventListeners, CowEvents} from '@cowprotocol/widget-lib'

const params: CowSwapWidgetParams = {
    appCode: 'YOUR_APP_ID'
}

const listeners: CowEventListeners = [
    {
        event: CowEvents.ON_TOAST_MESSAGE,
        handler: (event) => console.log('[ON_TOAST_MESSAGE]', event.message)
    },
    {
        event: CowEvents.ON_EXPIRED_ORDER,
        handler: (event) => console.log('Order was expired:', event.order)
    },
]

const { updateListeners } = cowSwapWidget(container, { params, listeners })

// If you want to change listeners at some point, you can do it like:
updateListeners([{
    event: CowEvents.ON_CANCELLED_ORDER,
    handler: (event) => console.log('Order was cancelled:', event.order)
}])
```

## Widget updating

You can change all possible widget options on the fly:

```typescript
import {cowSwapWidget, CowSwapWidgetParams} from '@cowprotocol/widget-lib'

const container = document.getElementById('cowswap-widget')

const params: CowSwapWidgetParams = {
  appCode: 'NAME-OF-YOU-APP', // Add here the name of your app. e.g. "Pig Swap"
  logoUrl: 'YOUR_LOGO_URL'
}

const updateWidget = cowSwapWidget(container, params)

// Update the widget
updateWidget({
  ...params,
  theme: 'dark', // <- Change theme to dark
  hideNetworkSelector: true // <- Hide the network selector
})
```

## Widget URL

Most of the widget parameters are controlled via the URL, which means that you can create the URL yourself and embed the
iframe.
An example of URL:

```
https://swap.cow.fi/#/100/swap/WXDAI/GNO?sellAmount=200&theme=dark
```
