docs/governance/multisigs.mdx, before:

# Multisigs

CoW DAO uses [Safe](https://safe.global) to manage its funds and operations. The following safes are currently deployed:

| **Name** | **Description** | **Chain** |
|---|---|---|
| [CoW DAO](https://app.safe.global/home?safe=eth:0xcA771eda0c70aA7d053aB1B25004559B918FE662) |  `0xcA771eda0c70aA7d053aB1B25004559B918FE662` <br />Main DAO safe bound to COW token holder votes on `cow.eth` snapshot space | Mainnet |
| [CoW DAO (USDC)](https://app.safe.global/home?safe=eth:0xA1cb7762F40318ee0260F53e15De835fF001cb7E) | `0xA1cb7762F40318ee0260F53e15De835fF001cb7E` <br />Safe controlled by CoW DAO dedicated for storing `USDC` | Mainnet |
| [Solver payouts](https://app.safe.global/home?safe=eth:0xA03be496e67Ec29bC62F01a428683D7F9c204930) | `0xA03be496e67Ec29bC62F01a428683D7F9c204930` <br />Responsible for executing solver payouts according to the DAO-defined solver accounting rules, including collecting weekly fees from the settlement contract and coverting them to `ETH` | Mainnet |
| [Solver controller](https://app.safe.global/home?safe=eth:0x423cEc87f19F0778f549846e0801ee267a917935) | `0x423cEc87f19F0778f549846e0801ee267a917935` <br />Responsible for adding / removing solvers from the settlement contract allow-list, according to DAO-defined solver bonding rules | Mainnet |
| [CoW Treasury](https://app.safe.global/home?safe=eth:0x616dE58c011F8736fa20c7Ae5352F7f6FB9F0669) | `0x616dE58c011F8736fa20c7Ae5352F7f6FB9F0669` <br />Managed with support of Karpatkey DAO to generate yield on idle treasury funds | Mainnet |
| [CoW DAO (GC)](https://app.safe.global/home?safe=gno:0xcA771eda0c70aA7d053aB1B25004559B918FE662) | `0xcA771eda0c70aA7d053aB1B25004559B918FE662` <br />CoW DAO main safe on Gnosis Chain | GC |
| [Grants Committee](https://app.safe.global/home?safe=gno:0xCA1F000D520c21C47E6c634DD31b92b91A6338bD) | `0xCA1F000D520c21C47E6c634DD31b92b91A6338bD` <br />Controlled by 7 committee members, responsible for funding CoW Grants | GC |
| [Grants Funds](https://app.safe.global/home?safe=gno:0xDA00000B30dCf0C3f5d968e4451Ebdee6950d63e) | `0xDA00000B30dCf0C3f5d968e4451Ebdee6950d63e` <br />Controlled by CoW DAO and Grants Committee to allow CoW DAO clawback of grants funds | GC |
| [Grant Funds (Volume-based Partner Reward Program - COW)](https://app.safe.global/balances?safe=gno:0xbD96C4Fe53f1d89a8Bdb3522BCEDfB20b5601b69) | `0xbD96C4Fe53f1d89a8Bdb3522BCEDfB20b5601b69` <br />Controlled by CoW DAO and Grants Committee to allow CoW DAO clawback of grants funds | GC |

Commit message:

Fix multisig purpose (#107)
Properly splits role between solver payout and controller safe. Also
added link and made safe links consistent.

docs/governance/multisigs.mdx, after:

# Multisigs

CoW DAO uses [Safe](https://safe.global) to manage its funds and operations. The following safes are currently deployed:

| **Name** | **Description** | **Chain** |
|---|---|---|
| [CoW DAO](https://app.safe.global/home?safe=eth:0xcA771eda0c70aA7d053aB1B25004559B918FE662) |  `0xcA771eda0c70aA7d053aB1B25004559B918FE662` <br />Main DAO safe bound to COW token holder votes on `cow.eth` snapshot space | Mainnet |
| [CoW DAO (USDC)](https://app.safe.global/home?safe=eth:0xA1cb7762F40318ee0260F53e15De835fF001cb7E) | `0xA1cb7762F40318ee0260F53e15De835fF001cb7E` <br />Safe controlled by CoW DAO dedicated for storing `USDC` | Mainnet |
| [Solver payouts](https://app.safe.global/home?safe=eth:0xA03be496e67Ec29bC62F01a428683D7F9c204930) | `0xA03be496e67Ec29bC62F01a428683D7F9c204930` <br />Responsible for executing solver payouts according to the DAO-defined [solver accounting rules](https://forum.cow.fi/t/cip-20-auction-model-for-solver-rewards/1405); it receives collected fees from the settlement contract | Mainnet |
| [Solver controller](https://app.safe.global/home?safe=eth:0x423cEc87f19F0778f549846e0801ee267a917935) | `0x423cEc87f19F0778f549846e0801ee267a917935` <br />Responsible for adding / removing solvers from the settlement contract allow-list, according to DAO-defined solver bonding rules; it also converts the collected protocol fees to ETH | Mainnet |
| [CoW Treasury](https://app.safe.global/home?safe=eth:0x616dE58c011F8736fa20c7Ae5352F7f6FB9F0669) | `0x616dE58c011F8736fa20c7Ae5352F7f6FB9F0669` <br />Managed with support of Karpatkey DAO to generate yield on idle treasury funds | Mainnet |
| [CoW DAO (GC)](https://app.safe.global/home?safe=gno:0xcA771eda0c70aA7d053aB1B25004559B918FE662) | `0xcA771eda0c70aA7d053aB1B25004559B918FE662` <br />CoW DAO main safe on Gnosis Chain | GC |
| [Grants Committee](https://app.safe.global/home?safe=gno:0xCA1F000D520c21C47E6c634DD31b92b91A6338bD) | `0xCA1F000D520c21C47E6c634DD31b92b91A6338bD` <br />Controlled by 7 committee members, responsible for funding CoW Grants | GC |
| [Grants Funds](https://app.safe.global/home?safe=gno:0xDA00000B30dCf0C3f5d968e4451Ebdee6950d63e) | `0xDA00000B30dCf0C3f5d968e4451Ebdee6950d63e` <br />Controlled by CoW DAO and Grants Committee to allow CoW DAO clawback of grants funds | GC |
| [Grant Funds (Volume-based Partner Reward Program - COW)](https://app.safe.global/home?safe=gno:0xbD96C4Fe53f1d89a8Bdb3522BCEDfB20b5601b69) | `0xbD96C4Fe53f1d89a8Bdb3522BCEDfB20b5601b69` <br />Controlled by CoW DAO and Grants Committee to allow CoW DAO clawback of grants funds | GC |
