docs/cow-protocol/concepts/flash-loans/integrators.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# How to specify an order with flash loan

The flash loan is encoded into the [appData](/cow-protocol/reference/core/intents/app-data)'s metadata as an optional object. This information serves as a hint for the solver, but the solver ultimately can decide for a different approach in order to make the operation more optimal.

It is important to ensure that the flash loan gas overhead is added to the slippage tolerance when creating the order.

```json
{
  "flashloan": {
    "lender": "0x1111111111111111111111111111111111111111",
    "borrower": "0x2222222222222222222222222222222222222222",
    "token": "0xdAC17F958D2ee523a2206206994597C13D831ec7",
    "amount": "1000000"
  }
}
````

- **lender (optional):** the contract that could be used to borrow the funds from. For example `0x60744434d6339a6B27d73d9Eda62b6F66a0a04FA` for Maker DAO, or `0x87870Bca3F3fD6335C3F4ce8392D69350B4fA4E2` for AAVE.
- **borrower (optional):** who should receive the borrowed tokens.
- **token:** the token that needs to get borrowed.
- **amount:** how many atoms of the token need to get borrowed (e.g., 1 `WETH` would be 10¹⁸).

If optional values were not provided the solver will choose sensible defaults.

Commit message:

Flashloans follow-up: rework comments (#466)
# Description

Addressing comments from https://github.com/cowprotocol/docs/pull/451


<!-- This is an auto-generated comment: release notes by coderabbit.ai
-->
## Summary by CodeRabbit

- **Documentation**
- Clarified the usage and default behavior of "lender" and "borrower"
fields in flash loan order documentation.
- Added a section explaining how lender protocols can be compatible with
CoW Protocol, including integration strategies for ERC-3156 and
non-ERC-3156 lenders.
- Expanded details on the COWShed proxy in pay-debt flash loan
scenarios, including deployment, permissions, and usage examples.
- Introduced a comprehensive guide on encoding flash loan transactions
for solvers, outlining contract interactions and encoding steps.
- Removed redundant or relocated content about flash loan transaction
encoding from the solver engine tutorial.
<!-- end of auto-generated comment: release notes by coderabbit.ai -->

---------

Co-authored-by: Martin Magnus <martin.beckmann@protonmail.com>

docs/cow-protocol/concepts/flash-loans/integrators.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# How to specify an order with flash loan

The flash loan is encoded into the [appData](/cow-protocol/reference/core/intents/app-data)'s metadata as an optional object. This information serves as a hint for the solver, but the solver ultimately can decide for a different approach in order to make the operation more optimal.

It is important to ensure that the flash loan gas overhead is added to the slippage tolerance when creating the order.

```json
{
  "flashloan": {
    "lender": "0x1111111111111111111111111111111111111111",
    "borrower": "0x2222222222222222222222222222222222222222",
    "token": "0xdAC17F958D2ee523a2206206994597C13D831ec7",
    "amount": "1000000"
  }
}
````

- **lender:** the contract that could be used to borrow the funds from. For example `0x60744434d6339a6B27d73d9Eda62b6F66a0a04FA` for any `ERC-3156` compliant lender contract, or `0x87870Bca3F3fD6335C3F4ce8392D69350B4fA4E2` for AAVE. 
- **borrower (optional):** who should receive the borrowed tokens. If no value is provided, the order owner's address will be used as the borrower.
- **token:** the token that needs to get borrowed.
- **amount:** how many atoms of the token need to get borrowed (e.g., 1 `WETH` would be 10¹⁸).

# How a lender protocol can be compatible with CoW Protocol

If the lender supports ERC-3156 then there is no extra smart-contract work needed.

If the lender protocol rely on direct repayment from the borrower through `transferFrom`, then the lender protocol could implement the borrower functions as in [Aave Borrower](https://github.com/cowprotocol/flash-loan-router/blob/main/src/AaveBorrower.sol) or in [ERC-3156 wrapper](https://github.com/cowprotocol/flash-loan-router/blob/main/src/ERC3156Borrower.sol).
