docs/cow-protocol/concepts/batch-auctions/how-batch-auctions-work.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# How batch auctions work

Given that Ethereum settles orders in discrete blocks every 12 seconds, the CEX-native method of orderbook trading may not be the optimal mechanism for settling DeFi trades. Due to the nature of AMMs, which settle trades continuously, the order in which a transaction executes determines how good of a deal a trader is getting. Batch auctions are a DeFi-native solution that provides fair pricing for all transactions within an Ethereum block. 

Ethereum has been friendly to batching mechanisms for a while. With the introduction of [PBS](https://ethereum.org/nl/roadmap/pbs/), Ethereum broke from a single-auction model into a two-sided marketplace that is constantly extracting value from users. Builders take part in an initial auction to determine what transactions will be included in a block, and proposers take part in a second auction to decide which block will ultimately be committed to the chain next. So users are already, in fact, participating in “batch auction”-style transaction settlement. CoW Protocol simply pulls this mechanism forward to the order creation stage.

![](https://lh7-eu.googleusercontent.com/6r3spKS1vtzxMz7lvkvhBialabTa-EmkxvhuxbG9ToPkwcuWnTG7LRoz8T5H0RMFzLFwbLAVTHzNVuopWHtWWgGZSSI_FbL8v--RgLGiBvTmFAo10UaggeHS51PN0k2dgfEe3uslxMCg7XQZANmMAC4)

In the context of trading, batch auctions work similarly to block building auctions. First, the protocol gathers intents submitted during a predetermined time window. Next, solvers begin looking for the best execution path and bidding on the batch. After this, solvers submit their bids to the protocol which ranks solutions based on expected user surplus. This step in particular bears resemblance to the block building process where builders decide what transactions to include based on maximizing the expected fee costs. In the case of solvers, the party that provides the greatest expected surplus collects the rewards for settling the batch. Finally, after the protocol finishes ranking solver solutions, it performs some additional checks including:

* Ethereum Best Bid Offer (EBBO): Ensuring that the settlement solution is at least as good as the on-chain price a user could get directly from an AMM
* Uniform clearing prices: Ensuring that multiple trades involving the same token pair clear at the same price

Commit message:

Update how-batch-auctions-work.md (#102)
# Description

I really don't think PBS is a batch auction (only because we aggregate
multiple units into a single item outcome) and reject any argument that
given PBS CoW Protocol is a more or less logical step.

Trying to keep the parallels but highlight again how PBS achieves the
exact opposite of our mechanism. Maybe Maximally Retained Value (MRV) is
a acronym we can coin?

<!--- Describe your changes to provide context for reviewers, including
why it is needed -->

# Changes

<!-- List of detailed changes (how the change is accomplished) -->

- [ ] One line per sentence
- [ ] continous -> pseude continous
- [ ] Some modifications around how PBS is batch auctions

<!--
## Related Issues

Fixes #
-->

---------

Co-authored-by: mfw78 <mfw78@protonmail.com>

docs/cow-protocol/concepts/batch-auctions/how-batch-auctions-work.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# How batch auctions work

Given that Ethereum settles orders in discrete blocks every 12 seconds, the CEX-native method of orderbook trading may not be the optimal mechanism for settling DeFi trades. 
Due to the nature of AMMs, which settle trades pseudo-continuously, the order in which a transaction executes determines how good of a deal a trader is getting. 
Batch auctions are a DeFi-native solution that provides fair pricing for all transactions within an Ethereum block. 

Ethereum has been friendly to auction mechanisms for a while. 
With the introduction of [PBS](https://ethereum.org/nl/roadmap/pbs/), Ethereum broke from a single-auction model into a two-sided marketplace that is constantly extracting value from users. 
Builders facilitate an initial auction to determine what transaction orderings (aka bundles) will be included in a block merging mutually non-exclusive bundles to produce the highest paying block.
Proposers then facilitate a second auction to decide which block will ultimately be committed to the chain next. 
So users are already, in fact, participating in “block auction”-style transaction settlement. 
CoW Protocol simply pulls this mechanism forward to the order creation stage and reverses the incentive to maximize the value the user retains instead of extracting it.

In the context of trading, batch auctions work similarly to block building auctions. 
First, the protocol gathers intents submitted during a predetermined time window. 
Next, solvers begin looking for the best execution path and bidding on the batch. 
After this, solvers submit their bids to the protocol which ranks solutions based on expected user surplus. 
This step in particular bears resemblance to the block building process where builders decide which bundle to include based on maximizing the expected "priority fee".
This fee tends to be higher the more value can be extracted from the underlying user transaction.
In the case of solvers, the party that provides the greatest expected surplus collects the rewards for settling the batch. 
Finally, after the protocol finishes ranking solver solutions, it performs some additional checks including:

* Ethereum Best Bid Offer (EBBO): Ensuring that the settlement solution is at least as good as the on-chain price a user could get directly from an AMM
* Uniform clearing prices: Ensuring that multiple trades involving the same token pair clear at the same price
