docs/cow-protocol/tutorials/cow-swap/limit.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

import CancellationOffChainOnChain from '../../../partials/_cancellation_offchain_versus_onchain.mdx'

# Limit orders

CoW Protocol supports limit orders, where users are able to buy or sell tokens at a specified price or better.

A buy limit order allows a trader to specify the maximum price they are willing to pay for a token, while a sell limit order allows a trader to specify the minimum price they are willing to sell a token for.

CoW Swap provides an intuitive interface in which one may place their limit orders.

## Place a limit order

For example, let's say we want to sell `COW`. We can set the limit price at which we want to sell, and the duration over which the limit order is valid:

![Limit orders](/img/cowswap/limit_place_order.png)

:::info

CoW Protocol does not charge a fee for placing limit orders. Instead, the protocol covers the fees by executing your order at a better price than your limit price. CoW Protocol will wait until the market price is sufficient to cover both your limit price and the network fees - which means that, in practice, your order may not execute exactly when the market price hits your limit price.

:::

At this point, CoW Swap will prompt you to review your limit order:

![Review limit order](/img/cowswap/limit_review_order.png)

:::tip

By default, CoW Swap sets your limit order to _partially fillable_. 
This allows your order to fill gradually as liquidity comes available. Partially fillable orders usually complete faster than _fill or kill_ orders and also provide better prices, so they are the default mechanism used to execute limit orders. 
However, your order may not end up being filled completely, if the remaining fill amount is small compared to the required network fees of settling it.
This can cause leftover amounts of sell tokens in your account.
You can turn off partially fillable limit orders and revert back to _fill or kill_ through the swap panel settings.

:::

Once the limit order has been reviewed, click "Place limit order" to proceed with order signing:

![Sign order](/img/cowswap/limit_sign.png)

Upon signing the order with your wallet, the limit order will now appear in open orders:

![View orders](/img/cowswap/limit_view_orders.png)

## Track a limit order

As mentioned above, limit orders on CoW Protocol don't always execute exactly when the limit price is reached. This is because the protocol waits for an even better price in order to cover the order's network fees. 

The CoW Swap UI makes this explicit by showing an open order's current _execution price_ in addition to its _limit price_. Check the "Executes at" column in the open orders panel to see, based on current network conditions, what price your tokens would have to reach in order for the order to execute. 

## Cancel a limit order

Now we've been doing some thinking and realised we shouldn't be selling `COW`, so we want to cancel our limit order. 
We can do this by clicking the context menu on the order and selecting "Cancel order":

![Cancel context menu](/img/cowswap/limit_cancel_context.png)

After selecting "Cancel order", you will be prompted to confirm this action. 

<CancellationOffChainOnChain
    alt="Cancel confirm"
    img={require("/img/cowswap/limit_cancel_confirm.png")}
/>

Cancelling limit orders is free as it's an `off-chain` transaction. So feel free to place and cancel limit orders as many times as you want! (Alternatively, if you want a limit order to be canceled as quickly as possible, you can choose to do the cancellation `on-chain` instead.)

Once the order has been cancelled, it will be removed from the open orders list and move to the orders history:

![Cancel confirmed](/img/cowswap/limit_cancel_confirmed.png)

Commit message:

feat: add traffic light explanation to limit orders tutorial

docs/cow-protocol/tutorials/cow-swap/limit.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

import CancellationOffChainOnChain from '../../../partials/_cancellation_offchain_versus_onchain.mdx'

# Limit orders

CoW Protocol supports limit orders, where users are able to buy or sell tokens at a specified price or better.

A buy limit order allows a trader to specify the maximum price they are willing to pay for a token, while a sell limit order allows a trader to specify the minimum price they are willing to sell a token for.

CoW Swap provides an intuitive interface in which one may place their limit orders.

## Place a limit order

For example, let's say we want to sell `COW`. We can set the limit price at which we want to sell, and the duration over which the limit order is valid:

![Limit orders](/img/cowswap/limit_place_order.png)

:::info

CoW Protocol does not charge a fee for placing limit orders. Instead, the protocol covers the fees by executing your order at a better price than your limit price. CoW Protocol will wait until the market price is sufficient to cover both your limit price and the network fees - which means that, in practice, your order may not execute exactly when the market price hits your limit price.

:::

At this point, CoW Swap will prompt you to review your limit order:

![Review limit order](/img/cowswap/limit_review_order.png)

:::tip

By default, CoW Swap sets your limit order to _partially fillable_. 
This allows your order to fill gradually as liquidity comes available. Partially fillable orders usually complete faster than _fill or kill_ orders and also provide better prices, so they are the default mechanism used to execute limit orders. 
However, your order may not end up being filled completely, if the remaining fill amount is small compared to the required network fees of settling it.
This can cause leftover amounts of sell tokens in your account.
You can turn off partially fillable limit orders and revert back to _fill or kill_ through the swap panel settings.

:::

Once the limit order has been reviewed, click "Place limit order" to proceed with order signing:

![Sign order](/img/cowswap/limit_sign.png)

Upon signing the order with your wallet, the limit order will now appear in open orders:

![View orders](/img/cowswap/limit_view_orders.png)

## Track a limit order

As mentioned above, limit orders on CoW Protocol don't always execute exactly when the limit price is reached.
This is because the protocol waits for an even better price in order to cover the order's network fees.

The CoW Swap UI makes this explicit by showing an open order's current _execution price_ in addition to its _limit price_.
Check the "Executes at" column in the open orders panel to see, based on current network conditions, what price your tokens would have to reach in order for the order to execute.

![Traffic lights on limit orders UI](/img/cowswap/limit_traffic-lights.png)

The "Executes at" column has a "traffic light" system to give an estimation of how far the order is from being executed.
It takes into the account current network fees, the size of the order and current market (spot) price.

Hovering the mouse pointer over the column will give an indication of how far the price has to move for the order to enter the execution range.

![Traffic lights on limit orders UI](/img/cowswap/limit_executes-at-go-down.png)

Clicking on that field will invert the price display for the individual order, and the hover text will also reflect the change in direction.

![Traffic lights on limit orders UI](/img/cowswap/limit_executes-at-go-up.png)


## Cancel a limit order

Now we've been doing some thinking and realised we shouldn't be selling `COW`, so we want to cancel our limit order. 
We can do this by clicking the context menu on the order and selecting "Cancel order":

![Cancel context menu](/img/cowswap/limit_cancel_context.png)

After selecting "Cancel order", you will be prompted to confirm this action. 

<CancellationOffChainOnChain
    alt="Cancel confirm"
    img={require("/img/cowswap/limit_cancel_confirm.png")}
/>

Cancelling limit orders is free as it's an `off-chain` transaction. So feel free to place and cancel limit orders as many times as you want! (Alternatively, if you want a limit order to be canceled as quickly as possible, you can choose to do the cancellation `on-chain` instead.)

Once the order has been cancelled, it will be removed from the open orders list and move to the orders history:

![Cancel confirmed](/img/cowswap/limit_cancel_confirmed.png)
