docs/cow-protocol/tutorials/cow-swap/native.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

import EthFlowTip from '../../../partials/_eth_flow.mdx'

# Native tokens

In blockchain networks the "native token" - for example, Ether (ETH) on Ethereum & xDAI (xDAI) on Gnosis Chain - is the primary digital currency. 
It's essential for network operations, like paying transaction fees.

"Wrapped" tokens - for example, Wrapped Ether (WETH) & Wrapped xDAI (wxDAI) - are [ERC20-compatible](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/standards/tokens/erc-20/) versions of these native tokens. 

They exist to improve interoperability with decentralized applications. The native token and its wrapped version are equivalent to each other, and a user is always allowed to turn one into the other ("wrap" or "unwrap") at a rate of 1:1.

_Buying_ native tokens such as ETH on CoW Protocol is straightforward. However, CoW Protocol is only natively capable of _selling_ ERC20 tokens - not native tokens. 
This is because the protocol's intent-based architecture relies on solvers to trade the sell tokens on behalf of its users.
Doing so is only possible thanks to ERC20's concept of approvals, which allow certain "spender" contracts to manage funds on the user's behalf.

Despite this, CoW Protocol provides two ways for users to sell their native tokens:

* **Option 1) [Wrap native tokens](#wrap-native-tokens) before swapping**: Wrap the native token into an ERC20 token (eg. `ETH` to `WETH`) and then swap WETH gas-lessly on CoW Protocol; or
* **Option 2) [Use Eth-flow](#use-eth-flow)**:  Place a single transaction in a special contract that wraps + places your order.

:::tip

Wrapping is best for returning users. Also, if you plan to sell the native tokens over multiple orders, its best to wrap all ETH together, so you only pay the gas fee once.

If this is a one-off swap, consider using Eth-flow instead.

:::

## Option 1) Wrap native tokens before swapping {#wrap-native-tokens}

Wrapping before swapping requires an extra step. However, users who wrap before swapping get the following benefits: 
1. Lower overall fees (if you need to swap multiple times)
2. Lower default slippage
3. No fees for failed swaps

The CoW Swap UI has built-in support for wrapping native tokens. To do this, simply select the native token you want to wrap (e.g. `ETH`) as your sell token, then select its wrapped ERC20 counterpart (e.g. `WETH`) as your buy token. 

The button will automatically change from "Swap" to "Wrap".

![Wrapping Native tokens](/img/cowswap/native_wrap.png)

Wrapping the native token is an on-chain transaction and requires a gas fee. 

After wrapping the token, you can simply select the wrapped token as your sell token and continue with your swap.



## Option 2) Use Eth-flow {#use-eth-flow}

In an attempt to smoothen the user experience, CoW Protocol has introduced the [Eth-flow](/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/periphery/eth-flow) contract. This allows users to automate the [above process](#wrap-native-tokens) and wrap + swap in a single **on-chain** transaction. 

Eth-flow get the following benefits:
1. Lower overall fees (if you need to swap just once)
2. Simpler UX (single transaction)
3. You don't need to approve WETH explicitly in order to sell it

Using the Eth-flow contract is faster than wrapping and swapping (as discussed above). However, because an Eth-flow transaction is on-chain (unlike most CoW Swap swaps), the user must pay an up-front gas fee in the native token. This fee is not refunded if the order fails.

![Swap Native tokens](/img/cowswap/native_swap.png)

To use the Eth-flow contract, first select the native token you want to swap (e.g. `ETH`) and the token you want to buy (e.g. `COW`). 

Then click "Swap". CoW Protocol will automatically detect if the native token needs to be wrapped and will execute the Eth-flow contract on your behalf.

After selecting your tokens, CoW Swap will prompt you to confirm the swap. This will be a single on-chain transaction that will wrap your native tokens (if required) and place the order on CoW Protocol.

![Confirm Native tokens](/img/cowswap/native_confirm.png)

<EthFlowTip />

Once you have confirmed the swap, your wallet will prompt you to approve the on-chain transaction interacting with the [Eth-flow](/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/periphery/eth-flow) contract. On completion of this transaction, your order will be placed on CoW Protocol.

![Eth-flow Transaction](/img/cowswap/native_tx.png)

:::note

When using the [Eth-flow](/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/periphery/eth-flow) contract, your order is only placed once the transaction that sends your ETH into the Eth-flow contract is confirmed.

This means you may see ETH missing in your account before the buy tokens arrive.

Fear not! If the order fails, your ETH can be refunded into your account.
The refund can be triggered by any account and should happen automatically if you used the CoW Swap UI. If not, get in touch with us for help at [info@cow.fi](mailto:info@cow.fi)!

:::

:::note

The [Eth-flow](/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/periphery/eth-flow) option is NOT available for Smart Contract wallets **in CoW Swap**.

:::

:::note

The [Eth-flow](/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/periphery/eth-flow) option is ONLY available for [Swaps](/cow-protocol/tutorials/cow-swap/swap).

:::

Commit message:

chore: `safe` bundling approval (#240)
# Description

Part of #228 

Adding Safe bundling to Swap tutorial as a tip.


![image](https://github.com/cowprotocol/docs-v2/assets/43217/11b8fd5b-2419-46d2-8197-224c5da6d718)

Also rephrasing the permit term used to match the UI: `gas-free`


![image](https://github.com/cowprotocol/docs-v2/assets/43217/e536ac17-a043-4e84-aa5d-58a7bae01f88)


Will address the Safe EthFlow bundling in another PR 

# Changes

- [x] Rephrase permit-style to gas-free
- [x] Add UI image with example of token with `gas-free approval` tag
- [x] Add tip with Safe approval+order placement bundle

# Related issues

Fixes #228

docs/cow-protocol/tutorials/cow-swap/native.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

import Image from '@theme/IdealImage';
import EthFlowTip from '../../../partials/_eth_flow.mdx'

# Native tokens

In blockchain networks the "native token" - for example, Ether (ETH) on Ethereum & xDAI (xDAI) on Gnosis Chain - is the primary digital currency. 
It's essential for network operations, like paying transaction fees.

"Wrapped" tokens - for example, Wrapped Ether (WETH) & Wrapped xDAI (wxDAI) - are [ERC20-compatible](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/standards/tokens/erc-20/) versions of these native tokens. 

They exist to improve interoperability with decentralized applications. The native token and its wrapped version are equivalent to each other, and a user is always allowed to turn one into the other ("wrap" or "unwrap") at a rate of 1:1.

_Buying_ native tokens such as ETH on CoW Protocol is straightforward. However, CoW Protocol is only natively capable of _selling_ ERC20 tokens - not native tokens. 
This is because the protocol's intent-based architecture relies on solvers to trade the sell tokens on behalf of its users.
Doing so is only possible thanks to ERC20's concept of approvals, which allow certain "spender" contracts to manage funds on the user's behalf.

Despite this, CoW Protocol provides two ways for users to sell their native tokens:

* **Option 1) [Wrap native tokens](#wrap-native-tokens) before swapping**: Wrap the native token into an ERC20 token (eg. `ETH` to `WETH`) and then swap WETH gas-lessly on CoW Protocol; or
* **Option 2) [Use Eth-flow](#use-eth-flow)**:  Place a single transaction in a special contract that wraps + places your order.

:::tip

Wrapping is best for returning users. Also, if you plan to sell the native tokens over multiple orders, its best to wrap all ETH together, so you only pay the gas fee once.

If this is a one-off swap, consider using Eth-flow instead.

:::

## Option 1) Wrap native tokens before swapping {#wrap-native-tokens}

Wrapping before swapping requires an extra step. However, users who wrap before swapping get the following benefits: 
1. Lower overall fees (if you need to swap multiple times)
2. Lower default slippage
3. No fees for failed swaps

The CoW Swap UI has built-in support for wrapping native tokens. To do this, simply select the native token you want to wrap (e.g. `ETH`) as your sell token, then select its wrapped ERC20 counterpart (e.g. `WETH`) as your buy token. 

The button will automatically change from "Swap" to "Wrap".

![Wrapping Native tokens](/img/cowswap/native_wrap.png)

Wrapping the native token is an on-chain transaction and requires a gas fee. 

After wrapping the token, you can simply select the wrapped token as your sell token and continue with your swap.



## Option 2) Use Eth-flow {#use-eth-flow}

In an attempt to smoothen the user experience, CoW Protocol has introduced the [Eth-flow](/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/periphery/eth-flow) contract. This allows users to automate the [above process](#wrap-native-tokens) and wrap + swap in a single **on-chain** transaction. 

Eth-flow get the following benefits:
1. Lower overall fees (if you need to swap just once)
2. Simpler UX (single transaction)
3. You don't need to approve WETH explicitly in order to sell it

Using the Eth-flow contract is faster than wrapping and swapping (as discussed above). However, because an Eth-flow transaction is on-chain (unlike most CoW Swap swaps), the user must pay an up-front gas fee in the native token. This fee is not refunded if the order fails.

![Swap Native tokens](/img/cowswap/native_swap.png)

To use the Eth-flow contract, first select the native token you want to swap (e.g. `ETH`) and the token you want to buy (e.g. `COW`). 

Then click "Swap". CoW Protocol will automatically detect if the native token needs to be wrapped and will execute the Eth-flow contract on your behalf.

After selecting your tokens, CoW Swap will prompt you to confirm the swap. This will be a single on-chain transaction that will wrap your native tokens (if required) and place the order on CoW Protocol.

![Confirm Native tokens](/img/cowswap/native_confirm.png)

<EthFlowTip />

Once you have confirmed the swap, your wallet will prompt you to approve the on-chain transaction interacting with the [Eth-flow](/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/periphery/eth-flow) contract. On completion of this transaction, your order will be placed on CoW Protocol.

![Eth-flow Transaction](/img/cowswap/native_tx.png)

:::note

When using the [Eth-flow](/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/periphery/eth-flow) contract, your order is only placed once the transaction that sends your ETH into the Eth-flow contract is confirmed.

This means you may see ETH missing in your account before the buy tokens arrive.

Fear not! If the order fails, your ETH can be refunded into your account.
The refund can be triggered by any account and should happen automatically if you used the CoW Swap UI. If not, get in touch with us for help at [info@cow.fi](mailto:info@cow.fi)!

:::

:::note

The [Eth-flow](/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/periphery/eth-flow) option is ONLY available for [Swaps](/cow-protocol/tutorials/cow-swap/swap).

:::

:::note

The [Eth-flow](/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/periphery/eth-flow) option is NOT available for Smart Contract wallets **in CoW Swap**.

:::


:::tip

While the CoW Swap UI doesn't support the [Eth-flow](/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/periphery/eth-flow) contract, it's possible to bundle the **wrap**, **approval** (if needed) and **order placement** via the special integration with the [Safe](https://app.safe.global) when using [CoW Swap's Safe app](https://app.safe.global/share/safe-app?appUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fswap.cow.fi&chain=eth).

<Image img={require('/img/cowswap/native_safe-bundle_1.png')} alt="Wrap and order placement bundle with Safe CoW Swap app. View of CoW Swap SWAP form." />

<Image img={require('/img/cowswap/native_safe-bundle_2.png')} alt="Wrap, approval and order placement bundle with Safe CoW Swap app. View of Safe's Confirm transaction screen." />

:::
