docs/cow-protocol/tutorials/cow-swap/README.mdx, before:

# CoW Swap

[CoW Swap](https://swap.cow.fi) is the first interface built on top of CoW Protocol and serves as a reference implementation for developers wishing to build user interfaces for CoW Protocol.

The interface may look very familiar to the average DeFi user, as it is originally based on the [Uniswap](https://uniswap.org) interface. This provides users with a familiar user experience, while benefiting from the unique features of CoW Protocol.

![CoW Swap website](/img/cowswap/overview.png)

## Supported Wallets

CoW Swap supports many popular wallets including:

- [Rabby](https://rabby.io) / [MetaMask](https://metamask.io) 
- [Safe](https://safe.global) (as a Safe app)
- [WalletConnect v2](https://walletconnect.com)
- [Coinbase Wallet](https://wallet.coinbase.com)
- [Trezor](https://trezor.io)
- [Ledger](https://www.ledger.com)
- [Ambire](https://ambire.com)
- [Alpha](https://alphawallet.com)
- [Trust Wallet](https://trustwallet.com)
- [Keystone](https://keyst.one)

If you've developed a wallet that supports [`EIP-712`](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-712) or [`ERC-1271`](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1271) signing, and would like to have your wallet supported by CoW Swap, please [file an issue](https://github.com/cowprotocol/cowswap/issues/new) or reach out to us on [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/cowprotocol). Alternatively you may wish to integrate CoW Protocol directly into your wallet interface.

Commit message:

Update README.mdx (#88)
adding bd contact for wallet integration support

Fixes #87

docs/cow-protocol/tutorials/cow-swap/README.mdx, after:

# CoW Swap

[CoW Swap](https://swap.cow.fi) is the first interface built on top of CoW Protocol and serves as a reference implementation for developers wishing to build user interfaces for CoW Protocol.

The interface may look very familiar to the average DeFi user, as it is originally based on the [Uniswap](https://uniswap.org) interface. This provides users with a familiar user experience, while benefiting from the unique features of CoW Protocol.

![CoW Swap website](/img/cowswap/overview.png)

## Supported Wallets

CoW Swap supports many popular wallets including:

- [Rabby](https://rabby.io) / [MetaMask](https://metamask.io) 
- [Safe](https://safe.global) (as a Safe app)
- [WalletConnect v2](https://walletconnect.com)
- [Coinbase Wallet](https://wallet.coinbase.com)
- [Trezor](https://trezor.io)
- [Ledger](https://www.ledger.com)
- [Ambire](https://ambire.com)
- [Alpha](https://alphawallet.com)
- [Trust Wallet](https://trustwallet.com)
- [Keystone](https://keyst.one)

If you've developed a wallet that supports [`EIP-712`](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-712) or [`ERC-1271`](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1271) signing, and would like to have your wallet supported by CoW Swap, please [file an issue](https://github.com/cowprotocol/cowswap/issues/new) or reach out to us on [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/cowprotocol). Alternatively, you may wish to integrate CoW Swap directly into your wallet interface. If you would like to integrate CoW Swap to your wallet, and would like support in the integration process, please reach out to us on bd@cow.fi.
