docs/cow-protocol/tutorials/cow-swap/swap.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

import Image from '@theme/IdealImage';
import TokenApprovalWarning from '../../../partials/_token_approvals.mdx';
import ReceiverAndOrderWarning from '../../../partials/_receiver.mdx';

# Swap

Swapping is the bread and butter of CoW Protocol! Let's swap some tokens!

## Select tokens

Consider an example swapping 0.05 `WETH` for `COW`.

<Image img={require('/img/cowswap/swap_need_approval.png')} alt="GPv2VaultRelayer approval required" />

When you do a swap on CoW Swap for the first time, you must give approval for the [`GPv2VaultRelayer`](/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/core#gpv2vaultrelayer) contract to spend your token (in this case, `WETH`). 
This is because [`GPv2VaultRelayer`](/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/core#gpv2vaultrelayer) is the contract that will pull the `WETH` from your wallet and send it to the [settlement](/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/core#gpv2settlement) contract that will co-ordinate the swap on your behalf.

Both contracts are audited, battle-tested and non-upgradeable.

Moreover, the settlement contract is the only address that can request the relayer to pull your funds and only after verifying both that your order was signed by you and that you will receive at least your limit execution price or better. 

## Approve sell token

:::tip

Some tokens, such as `USDC`, `DAI`, and `COW` support permit-style approvals. This means that you can approve the [`GPv2VaultRelayer`](/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/core#gpv2vaultrelayer) to spend your tokens without having any initial gas for an on-chain transaction. This is a great way to save on gas costs!

You don't have to worry about this, as CoW Swap will automatically detect if the token supports permit-style approvals and will guide you through the process.

:::

<Image img={require('/img/cowswap/swap_approval_default.png')} alt="GPv2VaultRelayer default approval" />

By default, CoW Swap prompts you to give [`GPv2VaultRelayer`](/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/core#gpv2vaultrelayer) an "unlimited" allowance for the sell token.

This has the benefits of:

- Not having to re-approve every time you trade
- Saving on gas costs

<TokenApprovalWarning spender="GPv2VaultRelayer" />

Once the `approve` transaction is confirmed, you can proceed to swap!

<Image img={require('/img/cowswap/swap_approved.png')} alt="GPv2VaultRelayer approved" />

## Confirm swap

When you're ready to swap, click the "Swap" button. You will be prompted to confirm the swap. This is when you can review the details of the swap (i.e. the quote, the slippage tolerance, etc.). If you're happy with the details, click "Confirm Swap". You will be prompted to sign the order.

<ReceiverAndOrderWarning />

<Image img={require('/img/cowswap/swap_confirm.png')} alt="Confirm Swap" />

At this stage, your wallet will prompt you to sign the order. The user interface for this will vary depending on your wallet.

<Image img={require('/img/cowswap/swap_signing.png')} alt="Signing Swap" />

Once the order has been signed, it will be submitted to CoW Protocol.
You are able to [view your order on CoW Explorer](/cow-protocol/tutorials/cow-explorer).

<Image img={require('/img/cowswap/swap_confirmed.png')} alt="Swap confirmed" />

Commit message:

Improve swap tutorial (#211)
# Description

This PR improves the SWAP tutorial.

There's multiple changes applied here:
* Fix broken lists for the contracts. Also use more friendly names. For
the most technical name they can see it in the technical reference.
* In general I added a bit more of spaces (line breaks, and bullet
points as phrases are a bit long and complex)
* Showed some excitement when you post an order. Is an exciting moment! 
* Expand on how to follow up your order. CoW Swap allows you to do that
without the explorer. I added a section for this and a screenshot

---------

Co-authored-by: mfw78 <53399572+mfw78@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/cow-protocol/tutorials/cow-swap/swap.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

import Image from '@theme/IdealImage';
import TokenApprovalWarning from '../../../partials/_token_approvals.mdx';
import ReceiverAndOrderWarning from '../../../partials/_receiver.mdx';

# Swap

Swapping is the bread and butter of CoW Protocol! Let's swap some tokens!

## Select tokens

Consider an example swapping 0.05 `WETH` for `COW`.

<Image img={require('/img/cowswap/swap_need_approval.png')} alt="GPv2VaultRelayer approval required" />

When you do a swap on CoW Swap for the first time, you must give approval for the [_vault relayer_](/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/core/vault-relayer) contract to spend your token (in this case, `WETH`). 
This is because this is the contract that will pull the `WETH` from your wallet and send it to the [_settlement_](/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/core/settlement) contract that will co-ordinate the swap on your behalf.

Both contracts are audited, battle-tested and non-upgradeable.

Moreover, the settlement contract is the only address that can request the vault relayer to pull your funds and **only after verifying** both that:
1. Your order was signed by you
2. and that you will receive at least your limit execution price or better

## Approve sell token

:::tip

Some tokens, such as `USDC`, `DAI`, and `COW` support permit-style approvals. This means that you can approve the [vault relayer](/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/core/vault-relayer) contract to spend your tokens without having any initial gas for an on-chain transaction. This is a great way to save on gas costs!

You don't have to worry about this, as CoW Swap will automatically detect if the token supports permit-style approvals and will guide you through the process.

:::

<Image img={require('/img/cowswap/swap_approval_default.png')} alt="GPv2VaultRelayer default approval" />

By default, CoW Swap prompts you to give [vault relayer](/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/core/vault-relayer) an "unlimited" allowance for the sell token.

This has the benefits of:

- Not having to re-approve every time you trade
- Saving on gas costs

<TokenApprovalWarning spender="GPv2VaultRelayer" />

Once the `approve` transaction is confirmed, you can proceed to swap!

<Image img={require('/img/cowswap/swap_approved.png')} alt="GPv2VaultRelayer approved" />

## Confirm swap

When you're ready to swap, click the "Swap" button. 

You will be prompted to confirm the swap. This is when you can review the details of the swap (i.e. the quote, the slippage tolerance, etc.). 

If you're happy with the details, click "Confirm Swap". You will be prompted to sign the order.

<ReceiverAndOrderWarning />

<Image img={require('/img/cowswap/swap_confirm.png')} alt="Confirm Swap" />

At this stage, your wallet will prompt you to sign the order. The user interface for this will vary depending on your wallet.

<Image img={require('/img/cowswap/swap_signing.png')} alt="Signing Swap" />

Once the order has been signed, it will be submitted to CoW Protocol where it is now ready to be executed! 🎉

<Image img={require('/img/cowswap/swap_confirmed.png')} alt="Swap confirmed" />

## Track your order
Your order will be in the order book and ready to be executed.

* CoW Swap will automatically notify in a pop-up message once your order is executed.
* You can keep track of the order status by checking the recent history (click on your connected wallet address in the top right corner).
* You can also view your order on [CoW Explorer](/cow-protocol/tutorials/cow-explorer).

<Image img={require('/img/cowswap/swap_account.png')} alt="Check Account" />
