docs/cow-protocol/tutorials/arbitrate/autopilot.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Autopilot

## Overview

The autopilot is the engine that drives forward CoW Protocol.

## Architecture

Running at a regular interval, it keeps an up-to-date view on the state of the protocol, synthesizes this data into an _auction_, broadcasts this auction to each of the solvers, and finally chooses which solution will be executed.

Users don't interact with the autopilot directly: its only intended interface is with the solvers.
There is a single autopilot running for each chain[^barn].

Its role can be broadly summarized into these main purposes.

1. [Cutting auctions](#cutting-auctions)
   - Data availability consensus around which orders are valid for a given batch
   - The initial exchange rates for each traded tokens which are used to normalize surplus across different orders
2. [Solver competition](#solver-competition)
   - Data availability consensus around the available solution candidates and their score
   - Notifying the winning solver to submit their solution
3. [Auction data storage](#auction-data-storage)

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant database
    participant blockchain
    participant autopilot
    box external solvers
      participant solver 1
      participant solver 2
      participant solver 3
    end

    par data retrieval
      autopilot->>+database: Get order information
      database->>-autopilot: Uids, signatures, owners...
    and
      autopilot->>+blockchain: Get order information
      blockchain->>-autopilot: Onchain cancellations, ETH flow...
    end

    # auction
    Note over autopilot: Cut auction
    par broadcast current auction
      autopilot->>solver 1: /solve
      activate solver 1
    and
      autopilot->>solver 2: /solve
      activate solver 2
    and
      autopilot->>solver 3: /solve
      activate solver 3
    end
    solver 3->>autopilot: Proposed batch
    deactivate solver 3
    solver 1->>autopilot: Proposed batch
    deactivate solver 1
    solver 2->>autopilot: Proposed batch
    deactivate solver 2

    Note over autopilot: Pick winner
    autopilot->>+solver 2: /reveal
    solver 2->>-autopilot: Ethereum transaction data
    autopilot->>+solver 2: /settle
    solver 2->>+blockchain: Execute transaction
    blockchain->>-solver 2: Transaction receipt
    solver 2->>-autopilot: Transaction hash

    autopilot->>database: Store auction data
```

[^barn]: There is technically also a second autopilot running on each network for testing purposes (in the _barn_ environment), but this isn't necessary for running the protocol.

## Methodology

### Cutting auctions

The autopilot builds an auction that includes all tradable orders.
To handle this, it needs to maintain a complete overview of the protocol.

Much of the order data it needs is collected through the database, which is shared with the orderbook.
The database stores the vast majority of available order information, including user signatures.

Other information can only be retrieved onchain and is updated every time a new block is mined. For example, it needs to know from the protocol:

- Which [pre-signatures](/cow-protocol/reference/core/signing-schemes#presign) have been set
- If new [eth-flow orders](/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/periphery/eth-flow) have been created
- Tracking which orders have been [invalidated](/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/core/settlement#invalidateorder) by the user
- Detecting if a batch has been settled and it should prepare a new auction

Retrieved information isn't limited to the CoW Protocol itself.
The autopilot needs to provide a reference price for each token in an order (a numéraire);
the reference price is used to normalize the value of the [surplus](/cow-protocol/reference/core/auctions/the-problem), since the surplus must be comparable for all orders and two orders could use the most disparate ERC-20 tokens.
The reference token is usually the chain's native token, since it's the token used to pay for the gas needed when executing a transaction. 
Orders whose price can't be fetched are discarded and won't be included in an auction.

Native token price fetching is handled by an integrated price estimator in the autopilot.
The price is fetched from multiple sources and may change based on the current configurations.
Prices are both queried from a list of selected existing solvers as well as retrieved internally by the autopilot (for example, by querying some external parties like Paraswap and 1inch, but also by reading onchain pool data as Uniswap).

Orders that can't be settled are filtered out. This is the case if, for example:
* an order is expired
* for fill-or-kill orders the user's balance isn't enough to settle the order
* the approval to the vault relayer is missing
* the involved tokens aren't supported by the protocol

The autopilot also checks that [ERC-1271](/cow-protocol/reference/core/signing-schemes#erc-1271) signatures are currently valid.

More in general, the autopilot aims to remove from the auction all orders that have no chance to be settled.
Still, this doesn't mean that all orders that appear in the auction can be settled: orders whose ability to be settled is ambiguous or unclear are remitted to the solvers' own judgment.

### Solver competition

Once an auction is ready, the autopilot sends a `/solve` request to each solver.
Solvers have a short amount of time (seconds) to come up with a [solution](/cow-protocol/reference/core/auctions/the-problem#solution) and return its _score_ to the autopilot, which represents the quality of a solution.
The scoring process is described in detail in the [description of CoW Protocol's optimization problem](/cow-protocol/reference/core/auctions/the-problem).
The autopilot selects the winner according to the highest score once the allotted time expires or all solvers have returned their batch proposal.

Up to this point, the autopilot only knows the score and not the full solution that achieves that score.
The autopilot then asks the winning solver to reveal its score (through `/reveal`) and then to execute the corresponding settlement transaction (`/settle`).
The solver is responsible for executing the transaction onchain (through the [driver](./solver/driver) if using the reference implementation).

### Auction data storage

The data returned by the solver is stored by the autopilot in the database.
Other auction data is recorded as well, for example surplus fee for limit orders and the score returned by each solver.
It also records the result of executing the settlement onchain in order to track the difference in score caused by negative or positive slippage.

This data will be used to compute the [solver payouts](/cow-protocol/reference/core/auctions/rewards).

## Considerations

### Complexities

A typical challenge in the autopilot is handling block [reorgs](https://www.alchemy.com/overviews/what-is-a-reorg).
The autopilot must be able to revert as many actions as possible in case of a reorg; everything that can't be reverted must be accounted for in the stored data.

In practice this means that some information (e.g., competition data by transaction hash) is only available after a "reorg safe" threshold of blocks have been proposed.

### What the autopilot doesn't do

The autopilot doesn't verify that a solver's transaction is valid, nor that it matches the score provided by the solver.
For this purpose, it's only responsible for documenting the proposed solution and the effects of a settlement to the onchain state.
Misbehavior is detected and accounted for when computing the solver payouts based on the data collected by the autopilot.
The solver payouts are handled outside of the autopilot code.

In the same way, the autopilot doesn't verify that the [rules of the game](/cow-protocol/reference/core/auctions/competition-rules) have been upheld.
This is handled in the solver payout stage as well; in exceptional circumstances the DAO can decide to slash the amount the solver staked for vouching.

Commit message:

chore: off-chain and on-chain

docs/cow-protocol/tutorials/arbitrate/autopilot.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Autopilot

## Overview

The autopilot is the engine that drives forward CoW Protocol.

## Architecture

Running at a regular interval, it keeps an up-to-date view on the state of the protocol, synthesizes this data into an _auction_, broadcasts this auction to each of the solvers, and finally chooses which solution will be executed.

Users don't interact with the autopilot directly: its only intended interface is with the solvers.
There is a single autopilot running for each chain[^barn].

Its role can be broadly summarized into these main purposes.

1. [Cutting auctions](#cutting-auctions)
   - Data availability consensus around which orders are valid for a given batch
   - The initial exchange rates for each traded tokens which are used to normalize surplus across different orders
2. [Solver competition](#solver-competition)
   - Data availability consensus around the available solution candidates and their score
   - Notifying the winning solver to submit their solution
3. [Auction data storage](#auction-data-storage)

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant database
    participant blockchain
    participant autopilot
    box external solvers
      participant solver 1
      participant solver 2
      participant solver 3
    end

    par data retrieval
      autopilot->>+database: Get order information
      database->>-autopilot: Uids, signatures, owners...
    and
      autopilot->>+blockchain: Get order information
      blockchain->>-autopilot: On-chain cancellations, ETH flow...
    end

    # auction
    Note over autopilot: Cut auction
    par broadcast current auction
      autopilot->>solver 1: /solve
      activate solver 1
    and
      autopilot->>solver 2: /solve
      activate solver 2
    and
      autopilot->>solver 3: /solve
      activate solver 3
    end
    solver 3->>autopilot: Proposed batch
    deactivate solver 3
    solver 1->>autopilot: Proposed batch
    deactivate solver 1
    solver 2->>autopilot: Proposed batch
    deactivate solver 2

    Note over autopilot: Pick winner
    autopilot->>+solver 2: /reveal
    solver 2->>-autopilot: Ethereum transaction data
    autopilot->>+solver 2: /settle
    solver 2->>+blockchain: Execute transaction
    blockchain->>-solver 2: Transaction receipt
    solver 2->>-autopilot: Transaction hash

    autopilot->>database: Store auction data
```

[^barn]: There is technically also a second autopilot running on each network for testing purposes (in the _barn_ environment), but this isn't necessary for running the protocol.

## Methodology

### Cutting auctions

The autopilot builds an auction that includes all tradable orders.
To handle this, it needs to maintain a complete overview of the protocol.

Much of the order data it needs is collected through the database, which is shared with the orderbook.
The database stores the vast majority of available order information, including user signatures.

Other information can only be retrieved on-chain and is updated every time a new block is mined. For example, it needs to know from the protocol:

- Which [pre-signatures](/cow-protocol/reference/core/signing-schemes#presign) have been set
- If new [eth-flow orders](/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/periphery/eth-flow) have been created
- Tracking which orders have been [invalidated](/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/core/settlement#invalidateorder) by the user
- Detecting if a batch has been settled and it should prepare a new auction

Retrieved information isn't limited to the CoW Protocol itself.
The autopilot needs to provide a reference price for each token in an order (a numéraire);
the reference price is used to normalize the value of the [surplus](/cow-protocol/reference/core/auctions/the-problem), since the surplus must be comparable for all orders and two orders could use the most disparate ERC-20 tokens.
The reference token is usually the chain's native token, since it's the token used to pay for the gas needed when executing a transaction. 
Orders whose price can't be fetched are discarded and won't be included in an auction.

Native token price fetching is handled by an integrated price estimator in the autopilot.
The price is fetched from multiple sources and may change based on the current configurations.
Prices are both queried from a list of selected existing solvers as well as retrieved internally by the autopilot (for example, by querying some external parties like Paraswap and 1inch, but also by reading on-chain pool data as Uniswap).

Orders that can't be settled are filtered out. This is the case if, for example:
* an order is expired
* for fill-or-kill orders the user's balance isn't enough to settle the order
* the approval to the vault relayer is missing
* the involved tokens aren't supported by the protocol

The autopilot also checks that [ERC-1271](/cow-protocol/reference/core/signing-schemes#erc-1271) signatures are currently valid.

More in general, the autopilot aims to remove from the auction all orders that have no chance to be settled.
Still, this doesn't mean that all orders that appear in the auction can be settled: orders whose ability to be settled is ambiguous or unclear are remitted to the solvers' own judgment.

### Solver competition

Once an auction is ready, the autopilot sends a `/solve` request to each solver.
Solvers have a short amount of time (seconds) to come up with a [solution](/cow-protocol/reference/core/auctions/the-problem#solution) and return its _score_ to the autopilot, which represents the quality of a solution.
The scoring process is described in detail in the [description of CoW Protocol's optimization problem](/cow-protocol/reference/core/auctions/the-problem).
The autopilot selects the winner according to the highest score once the allotted time expires or all solvers have returned their batch proposal.

Up to this point, the autopilot only knows the score and not the full solution that achieves that score.
The autopilot then asks the winning solver to reveal its score (through `/reveal`) and then to execute the corresponding settlement transaction (`/settle`).
The solver is responsible for executing the transaction on-chain (through the [driver](./solver/driver) if using the reference implementation).

### Auction data storage

The data returned by the solver is stored by the autopilot in the database.
Other auction data is recorded as well, for example surplus fee for limit orders and the score returned by each solver.
It also records the result of executing the settlement on-chain in order to track the difference in score caused by negative or positive slippage.

This data will be used to compute the [solver payouts](/cow-protocol/reference/core/auctions/rewards).

## Considerations

### Complexities

A typical challenge in the autopilot is handling block [reorgs](https://www.alchemy.com/overviews/what-is-a-reorg).
The autopilot must be able to revert as many actions as possible in case of a reorg; everything that can't be reverted must be accounted for in the stored data.

In practice this means that some information (e.g., competition data by transaction hash) is only available after a "reorg safe" threshold of blocks have been proposed.

### What the autopilot doesn't do

The autopilot doesn't verify that a solver's transaction is valid, nor that it matches the score provided by the solver.
For this purpose, it's only responsible for documenting the proposed solution and the effects of a settlement to the on-chain state.
Misbehavior is detected and accounted for when computing the solver payouts based on the data collected by the autopilot.
The solver payouts are handled outside of the autopilot code.

In the same way, the autopilot doesn't verify that the [rules of the game](/cow-protocol/reference/core/auctions/competition-rules) have been upheld.
This is handled in the solver payout stage as well; in exceptional circumstances the DAO can decide to slash the amount the solver staked for vouching.
