docs/cow-protocol/tutorials/arbitrate/README.mdx, before:

# Architecture

#### The Orderbook

The orderbook is the main entry point of the protocol. 
Clients can use the Orderbook API to create trades, get quotes for trades, get the current auction, etc. 
When you go to [CoW Swap](https://swap.cow.fi) and create a trade, the web site uses the OrderBook API to add the trade to the database. 
All the data the orderbook uses is stored in the database.

#### The Autopilot

The autopilot is a service that drives the core protocol functionalities.
It is responsible for creating and arbitrating auctions.
It communicates with the driver and decides when the auction is solved and when the solution is revealed and finally settled.
Besides that, autopilot is responsible for monitoring the solvers and making sure they behave correctly (and slashing them if they don't).

#### The Driver

The driver is a service that works as a bridge between the autopilot and the solvers.
It prepares all the data needed for the solvers to solve the auction and sends it to them.
It also receives solutions from solvers and does a postprocessing on them before sending them to the autopilot.
Postprocessing includes encoding, simulating, merging and ranking solutions.
The best solution is then sent to the autopilot. 
If chosen as a winner of the auction, the driver is also responsible for sending the solution to the blockchain.

#### Solvers

Solvers are services that implement different solving algorithms to optimally solve the auction.
They are expected to build solutions and return them to the driver before a given deadline.


# Arbitrating auctions

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant autopilot
    box 
    participant driver0 
    participant solver0
    end
    box
    participant driver1
    participant solver1
    participant solver2
    end
    activate autopilot
    Note over autopilot: Create auction
    par driver0
        autopilot->>driver0: /solve
        activate driver0
    and driver1
        autopilot->>driver1: /solve
        activate driver1
    end
    driver0->>solver0: /solve
    activate solver0
    driver1->>solver1: /solve
    activate solver1
    driver1->>solver2: /solve
    activate solver2
    solver0-->>driver0: Proposed solution
    deactivate solver0
    Note over driver0: Encode, simulate and score solution
    driver0 ->>autopilot: Scored solution
    deactivate driver0
    solver1-->>driver1: Proposed solution
    deactivate solver1
    solver2-->>driver1: Proposed solution
    deactivate solver2
    Note over driver1: Encode, simulate and score solutions
    driver1 ->>autopilot: Scored solution
    deactivate driver1
    Note over autopilot: Pick winner
    autopilot->>+driver0: Request execution
    Note over driver0: Settles transaction onchain
    driver0->>autopilot: Transaction hash
    deactivate driver0
    Note over autopilot: End
```

Commit message:

Iteration on exisiting arbitrate section

docs/cow-protocol/tutorials/arbitrate/README.mdx, after:

# Arbitrating auctions

This section gives a high level overview of the different components that are involved for CoW protocol batch auctions to take place.

## Architecture

Four main sub-systems are required to facilitate and drive the auction.

### The Orderbook

The orderbook is the main entry point of the protocol for traders.
UIs and other integrations can use the orderbook's API to create trades, get quotes for trades, get currently solved auction, etc. 
For instance, when you visit [CoW Swap](https://swap.cow.fi) and place an order, the site uses the OrderBook API to add the order to a database. 
This database with all order is shared with the **autopilot**.

### The Autopilot

The autopilot is a service that drives the core protocol functionalities.
It is responsible for creating and arbitrating auctions.
It decides which orders are valid for a specific auction, defines the timeline for each auction and orchestrates the revelation and settlement of the winning solver's solution.
Besides that, the autopilot monitors the competition and serves as data consensus layer in the case of dispute or slashing by the DAO.
Auctions are communicated to all registered solvers.

### Solvers 
For the sake of this documentation, we differentiate solvers into two sub-parts:

#### The Driver

This is the executive part of the solving process, responsible for interacting with the blockchain in order to enrich, encode and eventually execute the settlement.
It prepares all the data needed for the engine to match order in the auction and forwards the augmented auction to the engine.
In turn it receives raw solutions from the solver engine, which it post-processes, simulates, merges, encodes into a blockchain transaction and finally scores.
Postprocessing includes encoding, simulating, merging and ranking solutions.
The driver interfaces with the autopilot and reports the best solution's score to participate in the competition.
If chosen as a winner of the auction, the driver is also responsible for getting the solution included in the blockchain.

#### Solver Engine

Solvers Engines implement the pure matching logic, by employing different types of solving algorithms to optimally match traders with one another taking on-chain as well as private liquidity into account.
They receive the pre-processed auction instance from the driver sub-component and return the solution together with instructions on how to achieve the fulfillment on-chain.

## Interactions

The main flow of arbitrating an auction end-to-end can be seen in the following sequence diagram:

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant autopilot
    box 
    participant driver0 
    participant solver0
    end
    box
    participant driver1
    participant solver1
    participant solver2
    end
    activate autopilot
    Note over autopilot: Create auction
    par driver0
        autopilot->>driver0: /solve
        activate driver0
    and driver1
        autopilot->>driver1: /solve
        activate driver1
    end
    driver0->>solver0: /solve
    activate solver0
    driver1->>solver1: /solve
    activate solver1
    driver1->>solver2: /solve
    activate solver2
    solver0-->>driver0: Proposed solution
    deactivate solver0
    Note over driver0: Encode, simulate and score solution
    driver0 ->>autopilot: Scored solution
    deactivate driver0
    solver1-->>driver1: Proposed solution
    deactivate solver1
    solver2-->>driver1: Proposed solution
    deactivate solver2
    Note over driver1: Encode, simulate and score solutions
    driver1 ->>autopilot: Scored solution
    deactivate driver1
    Note over autopilot: Pick winner
    autopilot->>+driver0: Request execution
    Note over driver0: Settles transaction onchain
    driver0->>autopilot: Transaction hash
    deactivate driver0
    Note over autopilot: End
```
