docs/cow-protocol/tutorials/integrations/programmatic/yield_farming.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Yield farming

Some protocols have a need to collect fees from their sub-entities, and then swap these fees to a `targetToken`. The `targetToken` may be a stablecoin, or a token that is used for governance, or a token that is used for staking.

Configuring a system to do this is not trivial and requires a lot of moving parts. Here we will discuss how to use CoW Protocol to automate this process.

## Objective

Using CoW Protocol we will:

1. Automate fee collection from the DAO's sub-entities.
2. Swaps fees accumulated into a `targetToken``.
3. Bridges `targetToken` to Ethereum mainnet.

A hypothetical DAO's desired experience is:

* Keeperless operation - The DAO should not be required to maintain a keeper for the tasks of claiming or swapping tokens.
* Assured swap rates - The DAO should have a mechanism that guarantees favorable swap rates for the accrued fees, eliminating the risk of front-running.
* Frequent fee collection - A system should be in place that enables regular collection of fees.
* Simplified on-boarding of new tokens - The process of adding different tokens that the DAO may have collected should be simplified. Preferably no need to create new contracts or recurrent on-chain voting.
* Easy transition to new `targetToken` - The system should be flexible enough for the DAO to atomically change the `targetToken` to minimise governance overhead.

### DAO Technology Stack

For the purposes of this article, this section covers the DAO's *initial* technology stack, prior to automation.

#### On-Chain

* `Agent` - A contract that essentially acts as an "avatar" that voters of the DAO are able to control through proposals / voting to enact proposals. It is assumed that an enacted proposal executes interaction(s) with other contracts as determined by the proposal.
* `FeeCollector` - A contract with `Agent` as an owner that collects fees. It is assumed the contract has:
  * `setOwner(address)` - set a new `owner`.
  * `withdraw()` - does *not* need permission for calling, and withdraws fees accumulated to the `owner`'s address.

#### Off-Chain

It is assumed that there is no current off-chain infrastructure owned / run by the DAO.

## Methodology

This section covers the steps that could be used to solve the objectives as best as possible.

### On-Chain

#### New contracts

##### Custom `Safe` Module: `BridgePushModule`

Implement a custom `Safe` module that exposes permissionlessly a method (such as `zap`) that:

1. Checks the `xDAI` balance of the `Safe` exceeds a minimum `threshold`.
2. Bridges `xDAI` from Gnosis Chain to Ethereum Mainnet to a `dest`.

:::warning

Configuration of the `dest` in the module should be set to only be modifiable by the `Safe` that has the module enabled.

:::

##### `Safe`

Deploy a new `safe` with the parameters:

* `threshold = 1`
* `owners = [agent]`
* `fallbackHandler = ExtensibleFallbackHandler(0x4e305935b14627eA57CBDbCfF57e81fd9F240403)`
* Modules enabled: `BridgePushModule`

After the `Safe` has been deployed with `ExtensibleFallbackHandler`, configure `ComposableCoW` by doing an `execTransaction` on the `Safe` itself such that:

```solidity
safe.setDomainVerifier(0xc078f884a2676e1345748b1feace7b0abee5d00ecadb6e574dcdd109a63e8943, 0xF487887DA5a4b4e3eC114FDAd97dc0F785d72738)
```

:::note

The first value above corresponds to the `GPv2Settlement.domainSeparator()` for the **chain in which the `Safe` is being deployed, and subsequently being the same chain that will be used to interact with CoW Protocol!**. The second value corresponds to the `ComposableCoW` address for the chain.

:::

At this point, we now have a `Safe` that is completely under the control of the `Agent` and is capable of multiplexing many different CoW Protocol orders with the use of `ComposableCoW` :muscle:

###### Discussion - Why setup a `Safe` and alternatives

This methodology for advanced conditional orders **requires** the use of a smart contract and makes use of ERC-1271. As such you have two options:

1. Use an existing smart contract that already supports ERC-1271 `isValidSignature(bytes32,bytes)`, and has a good UX for retrieval of tokens / arbitrary transaction support - of which `Safe` is perfect for this. Battle-tested and proven.
2. Roll your own `ERC-1271`-enabled smart contract and implement the associated token retrieval operations etc in the event funds need to be clawed back from your custom contract.

For those wanting to implement their own `ERC-1271` capable contract, `ERC1271Forwarder` in the https://github.com/cowprotocol/composable-cow repository provides hints as to how to do this.

##### Extended custom `TradeAboveThreshold` conditional order

A `TradeAboveThreshold` conditional order type signals an intent to _always_ sell `sellToken` for `buyToken` when the balance of `sellToken` exceeds a defined amount.

It would be suggested to modify `Data` struct, such that:

```solidity
struct Data {
     IERC20 buyToken;
     uint256 threshold;
     address feeCollector;
     uint8 coin;
}
```

###### Discussion - What did we do with this `struct` ?

With the changes we now can:
1. Infer the `sellToken` by querying the `feeCollector.coin(i)` for the `sellToken`.
2. Infer the current `balance` across the `feeCollector` and the `Safe` by adding `coin.balanceOf(safe)` + `feeCollector.admin_balances(i)`.
3. If (2) exceeds `threshold`, the `Safe` signals it's intent that it wants to trade for `buyToken`.
4. We removed `dest` as we want to ensure that the destination for the `Swap` remains the `Safe` that was configured.

### Off-Chain

Nothing happens automatically on blockchain. There's no `cron` jobs, so _something_ needs to act as a keeper. This could either be run by a DAO, or the tools made to make it decentralized enough so that someone can trigger it.

#### New Off-Chain infrastructure

Extend the `Web3Actions` for Tenderly to pickup via `IPFS` / `GitHub` repo the latest proofs for all the current conditional orders for the active `root` (more on the root part below when the complete setup is walked through).

The `Web3Actions` **MUST** also be adapted such that:

1. If a `ConditionalOrder` signals it's intent to trade, the action adds the `pre` hook to instruct the solver to call `withdraw` on the `FeeCollector`, which will automatically move the collected fees to `Safe` for trading. **NOTE**: The `pre` hook is an API field that is added to the API call to the CoW Protocol API.
2. If after the `ConditionalOrder` is executed, it is expected that the `target.balanceOf(safe)` exceeds the `BridgePushModule.threshold`, the add a `post` hook to call `BridgePushModule.zap()`.

###### Discussion - What guarantees are there for `pre` and `post` hooks?

* `pre` hooks **MAY** be _implicitly_ guaranteed when the `settle` would otherwise `revert`. For example, if the `pre` hook called an ERC-2612 `permit` method to give  an allowance to the `GPv2VaultRelayer` without which there is insufficient allowance, it can be said that this is an **IMPLICIT** guarantee.
* `post` hooks do **NOT** have an on-chain guarantee of their success. You **MUST** take this into account when designing your mechanisms. The case where this is likely to cause issues is if your mechanism requires post-swap accounting to be complete within the same transaction. In these cases, thought may be given to delaying the accounting until the *next* swap transaction where you can guarantee it in a `pre` hook (ie. you make the `pre` hook **require the accounting to be complete before continuing**).

### In Production

Now, with all the pieces in place, let's discuss how this would work in production:

1. The DAO makes a proposal to execute from the `Agent`:
  a. Set all `FeeCollector` admins to the `Safe`. This can be batched if the `Agent` permits `delegatecall` by calling via `Multisend`.
  b. Using the forth-coming `cow-sdk`, create a Merkle Root of all `ModifiedTradeAboveThreshold` Conditional Orders covering all `FeeCollector` and their parameters. Using this `root`, the `Agent` calls `Safe.execTransaction` to do `ComposableCoW.setRoot()`. The signature for this `execTransaction` can be set to a special signature as it's being called by the only owner (`Agent`).
2. Off-chain Infrastructure (such as the Tenderly Web3Action) is running with the root proofs calculated in (1b). This will continually poll each `ConditionalOrder`, and therefore check each `FeeCollector` whether or not it has accrued above `threshold`. If so, it will trade. The added `pre` hook will ensure that there are enough funds for the swap in the `Safe` (otherwise, the settlement will revert, whose costs are borne by the solver, and so they're incentivised to get it right). The added `post` hook will bridge out funds back to mainnet in accordance with our strategy. **NOTE**: This transfer back to mainnet doesn't have on-chain guarantees, however the way the system is designed, funds are SAFU and would simply be shuttled to mainnet on the next fee collection.

### Review

Now, let's review how we've gone with trying to meet our objectives:

* Keeperless operation 😐 - The DAO still needs to run a keeper, or employ keeper resources. Decentralization of the keeper would be relatively straightforward so that this could be distributed. A novel approach as well could be to add a watchtower functionality into the DAO's UI that polled a currently viewed `FeeCollector` to see if the browser should trigger an order. This may markedly increase `RPC` calls on the front-end and could result in CoW Protocol API endpoint spamming.
* Assured swap rates 😐 - In the system outlined thus far, the effective settlement rates depend solely on the CoW Protocol batch auction competition amongst solvers. This would require multiple solvers / highly competitive environments to ensure adequate risk diversification. An alternative would be to modify `ModifiedTradeAboveThreshold` to use `PriceCheckers`, with the `Web3Action` tweaked such that it supplied a nominated rate, with the `PriceChecker` verifying this on-chain against an oracle.
* Frequent fee collection ✅ - The proposed system meets this requirement.
* Simplified on-boarding of new tokens ✅ - The proposed system would require a single vote by the DAO per each time adding new tokens. This would require setting an `approve` on the `Safe` to the `GPv2VaultRelayer` for the additional token(s), and `setRoot` of the new root of Conditional Orders.
* Easy transition to new `target` token ✅ - The proposed system could simply have the `buyToken` modified across all the conditional orders. As this is then summarized into a merkle root, it would simply require one vote by the DAO at which the `Agent` would trigger the `Safe` to call `ComposableCoW.setRoot()` with the new root.

Commit message:

chore: link references for hooks (#161)
# Description

Adds links to the main hooks page every time I felt it helped
understanding.
Links are absolute to help refactoring if needed.

Note that the one `<a>` link is needed because the text is nested in a
`<details>` box.

docs/cow-protocol/tutorials/integrations/programmatic/yield_farming.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Yield farming

Some protocols have a need to collect fees from their sub-entities, and then swap these fees to a `targetToken`. The `targetToken` may be a stablecoin, or a token that is used for governance, or a token that is used for staking.

Configuring a system to do this is not trivial and requires a lot of moving parts. Here we will discuss how to use CoW Protocol to automate this process.

## Objective

Using CoW Protocol we will:

1. Automate fee collection from the DAO's sub-entities.
2. Swaps fees accumulated into a `targetToken``.
3. Bridges `targetToken` to Ethereum mainnet.

A hypothetical DAO's desired experience is:

* Keeperless operation - The DAO should not be required to maintain a keeper for the tasks of claiming or swapping tokens.
* Assured swap rates - The DAO should have a mechanism that guarantees favorable swap rates for the accrued fees, eliminating the risk of front-running.
* Frequent fee collection - A system should be in place that enables regular collection of fees.
* Simplified on-boarding of new tokens - The process of adding different tokens that the DAO may have collected should be simplified. Preferably no need to create new contracts or recurrent on-chain voting.
* Easy transition to new `targetToken` - The system should be flexible enough for the DAO to atomically change the `targetToken` to minimise governance overhead.

### DAO Technology Stack

For the purposes of this article, this section covers the DAO's *initial* technology stack, prior to automation.

#### On-Chain

* `Agent` - A contract that essentially acts as an "avatar" that voters of the DAO are able to control through proposals / voting to enact proposals. It is assumed that an enacted proposal executes interaction(s) with other contracts as determined by the proposal.
* `FeeCollector` - A contract with `Agent` as an owner that collects fees. It is assumed the contract has:
  * `setOwner(address)` - set a new `owner`.
  * `withdraw()` - does *not* need permission for calling, and withdraws fees accumulated to the `owner`'s address.

#### Off-Chain

It is assumed that there is no current off-chain infrastructure owned / run by the DAO.

## Methodology

This section covers the steps that could be used to solve the objectives as best as possible.

### On-Chain

#### New contracts

##### Custom `Safe` Module: `BridgePushModule`

Implement a custom `Safe` module that exposes permissionlessly a method (such as `zap`) that:

1. Checks the `xDAI` balance of the `Safe` exceeds a minimum `threshold`.
2. Bridges `xDAI` from Gnosis Chain to Ethereum Mainnet to a `dest`.

:::warning

Configuration of the `dest` in the module should be set to only be modifiable by the `Safe` that has the module enabled.

:::

##### `Safe`

Deploy a new `safe` with the parameters:

* `threshold = 1`
* `owners = [agent]`
* `fallbackHandler = ExtensibleFallbackHandler(0x4e305935b14627eA57CBDbCfF57e81fd9F240403)`
* Modules enabled: `BridgePushModule`

After the `Safe` has been deployed with `ExtensibleFallbackHandler`, configure `ComposableCoW` by doing an `execTransaction` on the `Safe` itself such that:

```solidity
safe.setDomainVerifier(0xc078f884a2676e1345748b1feace7b0abee5d00ecadb6e574dcdd109a63e8943, 0xF487887DA5a4b4e3eC114FDAd97dc0F785d72738)
```

:::note

The first value above corresponds to the `GPv2Settlement.domainSeparator()` for the **chain in which the `Safe` is being deployed, and subsequently being the same chain that will be used to interact with CoW Protocol!**. The second value corresponds to the `ComposableCoW` address for the chain.

:::

At this point, we now have a `Safe` that is completely under the control of the `Agent` and is capable of multiplexing many different CoW Protocol orders with the use of `ComposableCoW` :muscle:

###### Discussion - Why setup a `Safe` and alternatives

This methodology for advanced conditional orders **requires** the use of a smart contract and makes use of ERC-1271. As such you have two options:

1. Use an existing smart contract that already supports ERC-1271 `isValidSignature(bytes32,bytes)`, and has a good UX for retrieval of tokens / arbitrary transaction support - of which `Safe` is perfect for this. Battle-tested and proven.
2. Roll your own `ERC-1271`-enabled smart contract and implement the associated token retrieval operations etc in the event funds need to be clawed back from your custom contract.

For those wanting to implement their own `ERC-1271` capable contract, `ERC1271Forwarder` in the https://github.com/cowprotocol/composable-cow repository provides hints as to how to do this.

##### Extended custom `TradeAboveThreshold` conditional order

A `TradeAboveThreshold` conditional order type signals an intent to _always_ sell `sellToken` for `buyToken` when the balance of `sellToken` exceeds a defined amount.

It would be suggested to modify `Data` struct, such that:

```solidity
struct Data {
     IERC20 buyToken;
     uint256 threshold;
     address feeCollector;
     uint8 coin;
}
```

###### Discussion - What did we do with this `struct` ?

With the changes we now can:
1. Infer the `sellToken` by querying the `feeCollector.coin(i)` for the `sellToken`.
2. Infer the current `balance` across the `feeCollector` and the `Safe` by adding `coin.balanceOf(safe)` + `feeCollector.admin_balances(i)`.
3. If (2) exceeds `threshold`, the `Safe` signals it's intent that it wants to trade for `buyToken`.
4. We removed `dest` as we want to ensure that the destination for the `Swap` remains the `Safe` that was configured.

### Off-Chain

Nothing happens automatically on blockchain. There's no `cron` jobs, so _something_ needs to act as a keeper. This could either be run by a DAO, or the tools made to make it decentralized enough so that someone can trigger it.

You can also rely on [CoW Hooks](/cow-protocol/reference/core/intents/hooks), but keep in mind that hook execution isn't guaranteed by the protocol. We discuss this below.

#### New Off-Chain infrastructure

Extend the `Web3Actions` for Tenderly to pickup via `IPFS` / `GitHub` repo the latest proofs for all the current conditional orders for the active `root` (more on the root part below when the complete setup is walked through).

The `Web3Actions` **MUST** also be adapted such that:

1. If a `ConditionalOrder` signals it's intent to trade, the action adds the `pre` hook to instruct the solver to call `withdraw` on the `FeeCollector`, which will automatically move the collected fees to `Safe` for trading. **NOTE**: The `pre` hook is an API field that is added to the API call to the CoW Protocol API.
2. If after the `ConditionalOrder` is executed, it is expected that the `target.balanceOf(safe)` exceeds the `BridgePushModule.threshold`, the add a `post` hook to call `BridgePushModule.zap()`.

###### Discussion - What guarantees are there for `pre` and `post` hooks?

* `pre` hooks **MAY** be _implicitly_ guaranteed when the `settle` would otherwise `revert`. For example, if the `pre` hook called an ERC-2612 `permit` method to give  an allowance to the `GPv2VaultRelayer` without which there is insufficient allowance, it can be said that this is an **IMPLICIT** guarantee.
* `post` hooks do **NOT** have an on-chain guarantee of their success. You **MUST** take this into account when designing your mechanisms. The case where this is likely to cause issues is if your mechanism requires post-swap accounting to be complete within the same transaction. In these cases, thought may be given to delaying the accounting until the *next* swap transaction where you can guarantee it in a `pre` hook (ie. you make the `pre` hook **require the accounting to be complete before continuing**).

### In Production

Now, with all the pieces in place, let's discuss how this would work in production:

1. The DAO makes a proposal to execute from the `Agent`:
  a. Set all `FeeCollector` admins to the `Safe`. This can be batched if the `Agent` permits `delegatecall` by calling via `Multisend`.
  b. Using the forth-coming `cow-sdk`, create a Merkle Root of all `ModifiedTradeAboveThreshold` Conditional Orders covering all `FeeCollector` and their parameters. Using this `root`, the `Agent` calls `Safe.execTransaction` to do `ComposableCoW.setRoot()`. The signature for this `execTransaction` can be set to a special signature as it's being called by the only owner (`Agent`).
2. Off-chain Infrastructure (such as the Tenderly Web3Action) is running with the root proofs calculated in (1b). This will continually poll each `ConditionalOrder`, and therefore check each `FeeCollector` whether or not it has accrued above `threshold`. If so, it will trade. The added `pre` hook will ensure that there are enough funds for the swap in the `Safe` (otherwise, the settlement will revert, whose costs are borne by the solver, and so they're incentivised to get it right). The added `post` hook will bridge out funds back to mainnet in accordance with our strategy. **NOTE**: This transfer back to mainnet doesn't have on-chain guarantees, however the way the system is designed, funds are SAFU and would simply be shuttled to mainnet on the next fee collection.

### Review

Now, let's review how we've gone with trying to meet our objectives:

* Keeperless operation 😐 - The DAO still needs to run a keeper, or employ keeper resources. Decentralization of the keeper would be relatively straightforward so that this could be distributed. A novel approach as well could be to add a watchtower functionality into the DAO's UI that polled a currently viewed `FeeCollector` to see if the browser should trigger an order. This may markedly increase `RPC` calls on the front-end and could result in CoW Protocol API endpoint spamming.
* Assured swap rates 😐 - In the system outlined thus far, the effective settlement rates depend solely on the CoW Protocol batch auction competition amongst solvers. This would require multiple solvers / highly competitive environments to ensure adequate risk diversification. An alternative would be to modify `ModifiedTradeAboveThreshold` to use `PriceCheckers`, with the `Web3Action` tweaked such that it supplied a nominated rate, with the `PriceChecker` verifying this on-chain against an oracle.
* Frequent fee collection ✅ - The proposed system meets this requirement.
* Simplified on-boarding of new tokens ✅ - The proposed system would require a single vote by the DAO per each time adding new tokens. This would require setting an `approve` on the `Safe` to the `GPv2VaultRelayer` for the additional token(s), and `setRoot` of the new root of Conditional Orders.
* Easy transition to new `target` token ✅ - The proposed system could simply have the `buyToken` modified across all the conditional orders. As this is then summarized into a merkle root, it would simply require one vote by the DAO at which the `Agent` would trigger the `Safe` to call `ComposableCoW.setRoot()` with the new root.
